 Live stream to all your favorite social platforms at once Best streaming software in 2023 👀 This guide to the best streaming software walks you through what to look for and reviews the most popular options. Restream Team Intro Streaming software is the workhorse of a booming industry, and it continues to grow. The audience for live video content in the U.S. alone is expected to increase to 164.6 million viewers by 2024. New live streaming services appear all the time — every social network has one now — so sifting through the options and picking the best streaming software can be challenging. We created this guide to demystify live streaming software and help you choose the best one. 🤔 What is live streaming software? Live streaming software is a program or app that converts live video input into a digital format that’s suitable for live streaming. This conversion process is called encoding, and it’s the most basic feature all live streaming software should have. Streaming software comes in two forms: software that you download and install on your computer and browser-based solutions that require no downloads and work directly from a web browser. Software that you need to download usually requires a more powerful computer, whereas browser-based streaming doesn’t need as many resources from your computer to work. What to consider when choosing streaming software Most popular streaming software options have a few things in common, like letting you connect a camera and mic, recording video, and some video editing features. But there’s a lot that sets different streaming solutions apart. If you’re adamant about finding the best streaming solution, look for these main characteristics: Reviewing these four characteristics will help you eliminate the streaming solutions you absolutely cannot use. If they’re not in your price range, don’t support the platforms you use, or lack crucial features, then you shouldn’t use them. 🔥 The 10 best streaming software in 2023 1. Restream Restream is a cloud-based live streaming software that lets you go live on multiple social platforms with a customized broadcast. You can add your own logo, branded graphics and overlays, invite up to nine guests to join your stream, and even schedule pre-recorded videos to broadcast live. You can upload and store videos on the cloud, and record your live streams so they’re available for download after. Features Pros Desktop or browser-based? Use Restream Studio to live stream directly from your browser or connect Restream to any encoding software like OBS to multistream with your favorite desktop streaming app. Pricing 2. OBS Studio Open Broadcaster Software (OBS) Studio is like a gateway for those new to live streaming. It’s free and compatible with a variety of platforms, including Windows, Mac and Linux. You can also customize OBS as much as you like. A lot of new streamers (and pro streamers) use OBS because it doesn’t cost anything to get started and lets you customize almost every element of your live stream. It also integrates with Restream so you can broadcast a stream from OBS to multiple platforms simultaneously. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 3. Streamlabs Streamlabs is live streaming software based on OBS, but it’s designed to be more user-friendly. It comes with more features than OBS, which can be helpful if you’re brand new to streaming. Streamlabs is free to download, offers customer support, and caters many of its features toward gamers. Although the Streamlabs features make it easier for beginners to use, all those add-ons can slow down your computer. Be prepared for the occasional bug. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 4. XSplit Broadcaster As you progress towards professional, high-end live streaming software solutions, XSplit Broadcaster is a common next step. It’s easy to use, comes in basic (free) and premium versions, and offers decent support and the occasional feature update. You can also use third-party apps and plug-ins with it. Even though XSplit is easy to use, you’ll need to have some knowledge about encoding, because it doesn’t come with presets. It’s also a Windows-only program. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 5. vMix vMix is a good option for professional streamers, but it does come with a basic, free plan. It also allows a range of inputs including webcams, cameras, capture cards, playlists, DVDs, presentations and photos. It comes packed with many advanced features, provides great support, and is available at several price points, making it easy to upgrade according to your needs. It can be a drain on computer resources, however. Pair up vMix and Restream to push your broadcast live to platforms like Facebook, Twitch and YouTube all at the same time. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing There’s also a monthly subscription for $50 per month. 6. Wirecast Wirecast is a powerful encoding software for high-level video production. It allows unlimited camera inputs so it’s ideal for virtual and live streamed events. Wirecast also offers professional live video editing tools and is compatible with several types of capture cards and devices. You can use it to multistream to several platforms as well if you integrate Wirecast with Restream. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 7. Ecamm Live Ecamm Live is a live streaming and video production studio for Mac. It has powerful editing and overlay features, with a variety of inputs available. With Ecamm Live, you can stream to major platforms like Twitch, LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. You can also connect it to a multistreaming service like Restream to broadcast your live video on even more platforms. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 8. Lightstream Lightstream is not a downloadable software but a browser-based live streaming encoder. The Lightstream Studio lets you create unlimited projects and go live on major streaming platforms or custom RTMP destinations. It also supports guests and a green screen, and puts a light burden on your computer’s resources. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 9. OneStream With the cloud-based streaming service OneStream, you can schedule and broadcast videos you’ve already edited, as well as go live on multiple platforms. You can also use the Live Spaces feature to host a website with OneStream and play your live videos on a personalized web page. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing 10. Livestream by Vimeo Livestream by Vimeo is a live streaming solution for businesses and organizations that host live events. You can stream ad-free, HD video with your own branding and graphics and even use the platform to sell your products. It also lets you set up password-protected and private live streams. Features Pros Cons Desktop or browser-based? Pricing Conclusion On your way to becoming a live streamer, you’ll have to go through the process of selecting the best streaming software for your needs. Even though your software of choice might change over time, it’s important to think carefully about the first one you choose so you can get off to a good start.Understanding the key components of streaming software is crucial, including learning about the entire streaming setup and finding ways to expand your software’s functionality. Restream helps you get even more from every minute you spend streaming by letting you broadcast to a wider audience. That’s as important a feat as any in today’s crowded streaming landscape.     On this page Restream Team Tags: Share this article: 👀 Up Next The 11 best podcast recording and editing software in 2023 Jan 17, 2023 The 11 best live streaming apps (free and paid) Oct 11, 2022 Best streaming software in 2023 Oct 10, 2022 What is live streaming? The beginner’s guide Sep 12, 2022 Products Community Resources Company Stream Stream Live Video Live Streaming Platform Online Video Platform (OVP) Over-the-Top (OTT) Video on Demand (VOD) Connect Broadcast Live Online China Content Delivery HTML5 Video Player Worldwide Delivery Solutions Expo Video Gallery Manage Online Video Hosting Video CMS Privacy &amp; Security Measure Video Analytics Video Monetization Video Marketing Events Live Events Streaming Broadcast Live Sports Live Fitness Classes Production and Publishing Business Video for Enterprises Video for Marketing Professionals Video for Sales Organizations Churches and Houses Of Worship Governments and Municipalities Education and e-Learning Institutions Entertainment and media Creative Agencies Live Streaming for Musicians TV and Radio Stations API Video API Video API Documentation Player API Documentation SDK Tools Developer Tools Video Transcoding Pay-Per-View Streaming Secure Video Upload Learning Center Blog Press Case Studies Support 24/7 Support Phone Support Professional Services Support Articles Knowledge Base FAQ Dacast About Us Careers Partners Contact Stream Stream Live Video Live Streaming Platform Online Video Platform (OVP) Over-the-Top (OTT) Video on Demand (VOD) Connect Broadcast Live Online China Content Delivery HTML5 Video Player Worldwide Delivery Solutions Expo Video Gallery Manage Online Video Hosting Video CMS Privacy &amp; Security Measure Video Analytics Video Monetization Video Marketing Events Live Events Streaming Broadcast Live Sports Live Fitness Classes Production and Publishing Business Video for Enterprises Video for Marketing Professionals Video for Sales Organizations Churches and Houses Of Worship Governments and Municipalities Education and e-Learning Institutions Entertainment and media Creative Agencies Live Streaming for Musicians TV and Radio Stations API Video API Video API Documentation Player API Documentation SDK Tools Developer Tools Video Transcoding Pay-Per-View Streaming Secure Video Upload Learning Center Blog Press Case Studies Support 24/7 Support Phone Support Professional Services Support Articles Knowledge Base FAQ Dacast About Us Careers Partners Contact +1 855-896-9300 Team Blog Comparison of the 15 Best Live Streaming Software: What You Need to Know [Updated for 2022] By Max Wilbert December 01, 2022December 10, 2022 49 Min Read Max Wilbert Max Wilbert is a passionate writer, live streaming practitioner, and has strong expertise in the video streaming industry. Share this post Sign up for a 14-Day trial. Over the last decade, live streaming has become easier to achieve, largely due to advances in streaming software. Streaming software allows anyone from a newbie to an advanced broadcaster to easily create live streams. The global enterprise video market should reach $25.6 billion by 2025. If you do the math, that’s an annual growth rate of more than 20%. There’s no better time than now to incorporate online video content into your business operations. To do this you need access to live streaming and broadcasting software. Choosing streaming software that fits well with your gear, system, and niche, however, is a tough choice to make. Today we’ll cover what you can do with live streaming video software and compare the best streaming software options. We’ll compare the best streaming software options on the market today.  Some programs for live streaming require support from hardware encoders instead of live streaming equipment, so we will discuss that. Table of Contents What is Live Streaming Software?  Not to be confused with a video host or live streaming solution, live streaming software is another essential program for streaming live video. Live streaming software performs several tasks related to broadcasting. Video streaming software allows you to mix multiple camera sources to create a professional-looking HD broadcast. Encoding is another primary function of streaming software. The beauty of most live streaming software is that they help you produce those professional-grade live streams without much broadcasting experience. Live streaming video software allows you to craft a broadcast that looks professional. What Does Live Streaming Software Do? As we mentioned, there are a few things that most live streaming software can do. Typically, it serves two primary purposes: encoding and mixing/production. Some streaming software is dedicated to specific functionality, such as simulcasting or chroma keying. Let’s look a little more into these specific kinds of streaming software. 1. Encoding Live broadcasting software uses video encoding technology to convert your video feed into a suitable format for live streaming. Video cameras typically use formats designed for recording, but they’re not optimized for internet transmission. Broadcasting software is also crucial for video transcoding or replicating the video file of different sizes and qualities. It typically uses RTMP encoders or the HLS streaming protocol. Since encoders perform this function, the best HLS-enabled broadcasting program applications are often called live stream encoding software. To use live encoding software, you install and run it on a desktop. For more mobile streaming situations, you can use a laptop computer.  To efficiently run programs for live streaming, you need a computer with a consistently fast internet connection. Once you have your computer, you can easily connect video cameras via capture cards. The same goes for other dedicated hardware. You may want to use multiple computers with distinct roles for more advanced live streaming situations. For example, one technician could work to create graphics on an additional computer. You can feed these graphics via an NDI (network device interface) to the main mixing computer. That way, graphics display immediately with no lag time for your viewers. Although it is not ideal, it is possible to use a mobile device to run encoding software. 2. Mixing and Production The second function of live streaming software is both live video mixing and editing. The main purpose of live video mixing software, or live video switching, involves selecting and displaying multiple sources while a live broadcast is underway. In short, mixing is a kind of on-the-fly editing that the TV industry has used for many decades. All the best streaming software we’ll cover below are programs for live streaming that can mix software as well. These encoders allow you to do many tasks rapidly during a live broadcast, which is crucial to a successful live stream. You can use the broadcast overlay software to do the following: As you may already know, mixing is essential to creating an engaging and well-crafted live stream. The alternative—a single-camera feed without titles, images, cuts, overlays, or other finishes—may be sufficient in some situations. However, a single-camera approach is not usually professional or feature-rich enough for a good-quality live broadcast. That is why you need live streaming and broadcasting software to create a multi-camera or multi-source experience for your viewers.  Live streaming software provides the tools to turn your RAW video files into the correct format for online broadcasting. Live streaming software should also provide you with the tools to mix and produce. Live Streaming Software vs. Hardware Encoders    In this article on live video streaming software, we’d be remiss to leave out a brief mention of hardware vs. software encoders. Some broadcasters have needs that exceed live broadcasting software and may require a hardware encoder. As the name suggests, a hardware video encoder is a dedicated physical device (rather than a downloadable software) that functions similarly to a software encoder. Some individual broadcasters opt for hardware encoders when setting up access to mobile streaming. Why? Hardware encoders can connect to cell networks and are compatible with most programs for live streaming. Note that hardware encoders tend to be much pricier than software encoders. Similarly, they can be physically cumbersome, depending on your particular live streaming setup. However, since they are dedicated devices, they are typically more effective. Components of Live Streaming Tools A suitable live stream setting consists of several components. Once you are familiar with and comprehend the fundamentals, establishing your live streaming will be easy. The broadcast video is the most crucial element of your live stream setup, but there are also four other essential live streaming tools to consider. You will need a specific workflow for live streaming. It would help if you had a connection between your encoder and streaming destination and set up your audio and video components, connection, and live stream. You will be able to start a live stream once everything is connected, and your audience will be able to watch it right away. Selecting the Best Video Equipment Choosing the right camera is one of the most crucial aspects of your live video podcast. However, selecting the perfect camera can be challenging. There are countless cameras with live streaming features available on the market. Despite the trade-offs, selecting the best camera with the right features is the most important thing, just like many other technological products. You should jump right in and buy an entry-level video camera if you’re new to video podcasting and live streaming. Beginner cameras are much more affordable and portable than other models. Prosumer video cameras are a great mid-range option for live streamers if you want to upgrade a little. The camera’s overall video quality will be noticeably improved, with a standard feature, HDMI, and connectivity will also get better. Professional video cameras offer everything you want but are at a hefty price. These professional cameras have pro-level connectors. Selecting the Perfect Audio Equipment  Although it necessitates some editing, the audio equipment many individuals use for their podcasts significantly improves your video podcast. Entry-level and prosumer cameras have a built-in microphone, considered low- to medium-quality equipment. Several people use their cameras in addition to audio gear, which is advantageous if you have a limited budget. A wide variety of devices, such as USB and 3.5mm microphones and built-in microphones on professional live video cameras, are considered medium to high quality. Professional-grade microphones are the top tier of equipment and can significantly improve professional-level productions. Selecting the Best Mixing Equipment  When setting up your podcast, mixing equipment is a crucial component of a live stream setup. You can record multiple audio or video streams by using mixing equipment. During a live broadcast, you can also change your sources. Think about the following when shopping for video mixing equipment: Characteristics to Focus on When Choosing the Best Streaming Platform Most widely used broadcasting software options share a few features, such as recording video, connecting a camera and microphone, and including some video editing tools. But many things differentiate various stream software. If you’re determined to find the best live streaming software, keep an eye out for these key features: Potential compatibility problems:  Most video broadcasting software work with social media platforms and streaming websites. It would be best to look for compatibility issues using other programs for streaming and platforms like Vimeo, Panopto, or Dacast. Extra or sophisticated features:  There are different levels of live streaming software with other functions and degrees of difficulty. Some streaming software gives you the option to stream simultaneously to multiple live streaming platforms, while other live broadcasting software gives you more storage space to record your live videos. It’s possible to fall head over heels for streaming video software only to discover it doesn’t work for you. Before choosing a particular video streaming software, check out these features. Pricing: Some of the best streaming software is free. In actuality, the most widely used streaming programs are free. However, some for-profit quality enhancements can make your live stream more engaging. Examining these three features will assist in removing the live streaming software options you cannot use. It would help if you didn’t use web streaming software if they are out of your price range, doesn’t support your platforms, or is missing essential features. Comparison of the 15 Best Live Streaming Software Options Now that we’ve covered what live streaming software is, what it does, and the difference between hardware and software encoders, it’s time to review a few of the best streaming software for live streaming options in more detail. Specifically, we’ll review and compare Wirecast, vMix, VidBlasterX, OBS Studio, Dacast, and more. Let’s get to it. 1. Wirecast Built by Telestream, the Wirecast live broadcasting software is one of the top-notch programs for streaming. This software enables live streaming to any RTMP destination and also supports recording streams locally. Wirecast software is compatible with various capture cards, devices, and camera inputs. This encoding option includes live switching, picture-in-picture composition, titles, audio delay, and other similar features.  Wirecast also makes this aspect easy if you need to use pre-recorded video within your live broadcast. Wirecast supports a range of other technologies, including: Compatibility: Wirecast is compatible with both macOS and Windows. Pros: Cons: Pricing: The latest version of Wirecast is 14.3.4. The newest complete version was released on November 22nd, 2021. It features several enhancements and fixes, regarding bugs and other technical mishaps with the previous version and includes FBLive polling, a rewritten WebStream plugin, and Virtual Camera improvements.  The software comes in two programs for streaming: The Pro version includes several features not available on the Studio version.  These include: Setting up Wirecast with Dacast: Please check out the posts that we’ve previously written about setting up Wirecast with the Dacast video streaming software. User Review: “We use it for training and online learning. It works great and is relatively easy to use, even for non-experts on our team.” – Anonymous G2 Reviewer If you want a live streaming software solution that is compatible with almost everything you could want to pair it with, try out Wirecast. 2. vMix vMix, one of the best streaming software options, is a highly powerful encoder and was developed by StudioCoast. The latest version of the Windows-specific software is 24.0.0.72 and includes an upgrade to a free 60-day trial of vMix PRO for download. While vMix 24 is for Windows only, the software can be installed on a Mac via Boot Camp if the machine has a Windows partition. Like Wirecast, vMix software supports a wide range of inputs.  These include: vMix includes native support for multi-bitrate streaming, which is very useful for professional online broadcasters who highly value user experience. Additionally, this software supports the Network Device Interface (NDI). NDI sends your secure video upload over gigabit ethernet networks and green screens.  vMix’s programs for streaming also include a built-in titling tool with animation support. Additionally, it offers an instant replay and slow-motion feature. It’s one of the best live streaming software options for Windows PCs in the category of top-notch browser-based programs.  Compatibility: vMix is only available for Windows PCs. However, running it on a Mac is possible using a specific technique. While vMix cannot be installed directly on OSX, the solution when using a Mac is to install it on Windows via Boot Camp. Pros: Cons: Pricing: vMix is available in five different versions, ranging from Basic HD to Pro, and the streaming software comes with a free 60-day trial. Each version supports a different number of inputs, your purchase never expires, and includes the following versions: Alternatively, there is a subscription license that is charged monthly: vMix also offers a 60-day free trial and has all the features of vMix Pro including the ability to use resolutions greater than HD such as 4K, mainly to ensure vMix supports your computer hardware and works with it before purchasing. It is a great perk, as most encoding software offers only up to a 14-day free trial. Setting up vMix with Dacast: vMix integrates with Dacast’s online video platform, which is easy to set up. To learn how, check out our Dacast/vMix tutorial. User Review: “I like vMix because it is very easy to set up various shots by assigning various camera inputs, adding videos, presentation[s], and other graphics. It is an all-in-one solution for mixing video and streaming.” – Abhishek D. If you are dedicated to your windows devices, vMix is one of the best streaming software for PC that you will find. 3. VidBlasterX Next up on our list of best video streaming software is VidBlasterX, an RTMP-enabled live video production software. VidBlasterX enables streaming to most live streaming platforms, including Dacast. The input support and other features on VidBlasterX are similar to Wirecast and vMix. For studio users, VidBlasterX supports: VidBlasterX utilizes a unique modular design. For example, broadcasters can add each feature via a “module.” You can then add, rearrange and remove these at your discretion. Compatibility: VidBlasterX is compatible with the Windows operating system. Pros: Cons: Pricing: VidBlasterX is available in three versions. Each option is priced with an annual subscription model: Setting up VidBlasterX with Dacast: Check out our tutorial to learn how to set up VidBlasterX with Dacast. User Review: “VidBlaster is now a subscription-based local software installation that provides live streaming and recording up to 4K/UHD. Send streams to Facebook, YouTube, and other CDNs using RTMP app or the virtual camera driver.” – BCBLive Live Video Production Software Review If 4K and UHD streams are your priority, VidBlaster is a good video streaming software. 4. OBS Studio Now, let’s discuss OBS Studio. This encoding option is one of the best free streaming software  and open-source live stream broadcasting software packages. OBS supports RTMP broadcasting, switching between multiple sources, capture cards, webcams, chroma-key (green screen), video and audio streaming, and application windows.  Though it’s light on advanced features, it’s pretty easy to use, even for those new to live broadcasting. Note that OBS does not natively support any plugins. However, community members have developed various plugins that online broadcasters can use to add more basic OBS Studio features. These OBS settings for plugins include NDI, a feature formerly only found on high-end encoders. Another notable plugin supports pulling Tweets into your streams in real time. Please note that OBS does not support multi-bitrate streaming. Compatibility: OBS is available for Mac, Windows, and Linux. OBS Studio no longer supports Windows Vista. Pros: Cons: Pricing: OBS Studio is some of the best streaming software that’s open-source and completely free. There is no cost to accessing and using this software. Version 27.1.3 was released on October 4th, 2021, and is available for download here for macOS 10.13 or newer, Windows 8, 8.1, and 10, as well as Ubuntu 18.04 operating systems. For the Linux version, FFmpeg is required. Setting up OBS Studio with Dacast: We offer our customers a customized version of OBS Studio’s streaming software. This version makes it easier to connect directly to your Dacast live streaming service account.  With this option, you don’t need to enter details manually. Instead, simply log in to your Dacast account via OBS to start streaming live in minutes. Check out our OBS for Dacast guide for Windows users, you can also review this OBS for Dacast guide for Mac users. User Reviews: “OBS has allowed our organization to enter the video streaming and recording arena. In a day where face-to-face interaction is limited by the government due to the COVID-19 pandemic, video interaction has become so important. OBS provides an easily accessible way to develop effective video communication.” – Michael A. If you are looking for free live stream software that also offers robust tools for a quality broadcast, you need to try out OBS, which works on all three primary computer operating systems. 5. Streamlabs OBS Streamlabs OBS is another open-source live streaming video software. It is free to download, but users must upgrade to the Prime version to access all of the resources. The latest version of Streamlabs OBS is v1.7.0 and is available for download here. Streamlabs offers quite a few advanced features for browser-based editing and multicasting of live streams. It is the chosen video broadcasting software for many professional streamers. One of the unique aspects of this video broadcasting software is its web-based live streaming studio called MelonApp. The app allows you to broadcast to Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, or Twitch with one click and without leaving your browser. Compatibility: The Streamlabs website doesn’t indicate any limitations on operating system compatibility.  However, the platform is suitable for streaming to Twitch, Facebook, Mixer, and YouTube. Pros: Cons: Pricing: The Streamlabs app is free to download, but users must pay for “Prime” to fully access all of the advanced features. Prices for Prime are not listed on the website, although according to some customers, it costs about $149  a year or $19 a month. Setting up Streamlabs OBS with Dacast: We do not have a specific tutorial for setting up Streamlab OBS with Dacast, but you can follow our encoder setup guide for some general tips. User Review: “Easy to use, has tons of great features. Takes the worries out of streaming for first-timers.” James F., via TrustPilot If you want to play with many tools that allow you to customize your live streams, Streamlabs is an excellent video broadcasting software for streaming. 6. FFmpeg FFmpeg is an open-source live streaming software that is pretty basic but can also be customized to create great content. FFmpeg underwent a major new release, FFmpeg 5.0, on Jan. 17th, 2022, entitled “Lorentz.”  A few of the top features of the Lorentz update include: FFmpeg only releases about two updates per year. A few drawbacks of using FFmpeg are that there are minimal educational materials on the site, and it can be difficult for new broadcasters to pick up.  Compatibility: FFmpeg is compatible with Linux, Windows, and macOS. Pricing: FFmpeg is free to download and use. Setting up FFmpeg with Dacast: Check out our guide for using FFmpeg on Dacast. User Review: “FFmpeg is a Swiss knife for AV developers. It can transcode and trans package AV data in almost any format. The tools that come with it are very handy too. Its portability also makes [it] a strong candidate for writing mobile applications. Hardware acceleration support is widespread, too.” –  Ameya T., via G2 FFmpeg is an open-source solution, making it a great streaming tool if you want the ability to customize your content and live streaming experience. 7. XSplit Broadcaster XSplit is one of the best live streaming software options and has three primary products: Broadcaster, Vcam, and Connect Webcam.  XSplit can serve many use cases, such as:  XSplit Broadcaster is the primary tool we will focus on, although you can also use both the other tools XSplit offers to live stream.  Some of the top features of XSplit Broadcaster include: The most significant drawbacks to XSplit are that the platform can be a little confusing to navigate and has a bit of a learning curve. Some features require you to watch an advertisement before using the features. The program can strain some systems.  Compatibility: XSplit works with the Windows operating system. Although it is not currently compatible with macOS, a dedicated version that works with that operating system is coming soon. Pricing: XSplit Broadcaster offers three plans: Premium Bundle, VCam Premium: $30, and Broadcaster Premium: $100. Each package provides 1-month, 12-month, and Lifetime licenses. XSplit’s Premium Bundle is currently on sale for $115. The pricing plans for XSplit Broadcaster Premium are as follows: Setting up XSplit with Dacast: There currently is no integration nor guide on how to set up XSplit with Dacast.  User Review: “From setup to broadcast, getting XSplit to do its thing is incredibly simple. It even has hooks built-in for just about any streaming service you could want.” – Verified User, via Capterra If you create gaming streams, XSplit is the right streaming software solution. 8. SplitCam SplitCam is a unique live streaming software that is a handy tool for different types of use cases, such as:  Live events where viewer interaction, or interacting with more than one presenter is necessary, are helpful with this tool.  Some of the most significant benefits of using SplitCam include:  A drawback of SplitCam is the lack of encoding tools and mobile streaming support; you have to be streaming from a computer.  However, if you want to live stream from your webcam to popular social media channels with some video editing support, SplitCam is one of the best live streaming software to access. Pricing: SplitCam is free to download and use. Setting up SplitCam with Dacast: We do not have a specific tutorial for setting up SplitCam with Dacast, but you can follow our encoder setup guide for some general tips. User Review: There are no user reviews available for SplitCam. For broadcasters that want to mix and create peer-to-peer video streams, SplitCam is the unique live streaming software solution you need. 9. Switchboard Live    Switchboard Live is a live streaming software focused on simulcasting. It allows you to simulcast to unlimited destinations. This cloud-based streaming software supports video embedding, allowing you to share your live streams directly on your website. One of the newer features of Switchboard Live is the ability to StreamShare. StreamShare allows viewers to carry your live stream on their social media platform without a password or technical setup.  It allows you to stream not just to social media platforms that you own but also to those of your viewers and supporters, allowing you to access the audience potential of viewers’ live channels.  Switchboard Live’s top benefits and features include: Switchboard Live also has a comprehensive support system, including phone, chat, email, FAQs, forum, and knowledge base.  A few drawbacks include some snags with setting up the platform and settings that require manual configuration that is automated on most other live streaming platforms. Compatibility: The Switchboard Live website does not provide information on operating system compatibility or limitations. Pricing: Switchboard Live has three different pricing plans with endless streaming destinations. These plans include: Discounts are available for users who pay quarterly or annually. All the above plans offer a free trial, no credit card required, allowing you to try out the different plans and find the one that is right for you.  Setting up Switchboard Live with Dacast: Please check out our dedicated tutorial for more information on how to simulcast on Dacast through Switchboard Live.   Switchboard is a reliable simulcasting tool for online broadcasters who want to play their content on multiple platforms simultaneously. User Review: There are no public user reviews for Switchboard Live. 10. FFsplit    FFsplit is a live streaming software dedicated to production. It allows you to merge multiple inputs to create a fluid stream. You can broadcast the streams in real time, or they can be saved locally. It is freeware, which means that it is entirely free to use. However, it is not an open-source software.  This platform is basic, but it’s a good option for broadcasters supporting multi-source streaming. It is important to note that FFsplit is no longer being developed or updated. The latest build, FFsplit 0.7.0 Test Build 26, was released on December 13th, 2014. It states that you can download legacy versions 0.7.0 and up, as well as 0.6.0 and below, on their website; however, the links no longer appear active.  The most significant benefit of FFsplit is that it is free to use with a focus on live streaming. It allows users to merge multiple inputs and is easy The drawbacks of FFsplit are as follows:  Compatibility: The FFsplit site does not include compatibility information, but third-party sources claim that FFsplit does not work on macOS. Pros: Cons: Pricing: FFsplit is free to use. Setting Up FFsplit on Dacast: We don’t have a dedicated tutorial for setting up FFsplit with Dacast, but you can use our encoder setup guide for some general instructions. User Review: There are no public user reviews for FFsplit. 11. Prism Live Studio    Prism Live Studio is a live streaming software that allows you to create videos with stunning effects and stream to multiple platforms simultaneously.  There are three different camera modes:  You can use Prism Live Studio to create a dynamic and interactive live stream, create an engaging video-on-demand, or enhance your photos.  There is both a mobile and desktop version of Prism Live Studio. It works on both Windows and Apple operating systems.  With Prism Live Studio, you can add a variety of different types of external content to your videos, such as: Prism Live Studio also offers tools for simulcasting, allowing you to stream directly from the platform to multiple platforms at once, including: It supports a limited number of locations for simulcasting, and the production tools for live streaming are limited. Compatibility: Prism Live Studio is available for Windows and Apple operating systems. This platform supports simulcasting to YouTube, Twitch, Facebook, AfreecaTV, V LIVE, and NAVER TV. Pricing: No pricing is published on the Prism Live Studio site, but you can download the app for free on the App Store and Google Play Store. Setting Up Prism Live Studio with Dacast: We do not have a dedicated tutorial for using Prism Live Studio with Dacast, but you can follow our encoder setup guide for some general tips. Prism Live Studio is not a complete live streaming software solution; however, it provides you with simulcasting capabilities. User Review: “This [app really helps] me for my live streaming activities and [it’s a] really good signal. Keep it up.” – Kazumae Perez 12. OpenShot OpenShot is a live streaming software focused on editing. It is an entirely free editing live streaming software that is open-source. Being open-source means you can easily customize OpenShot for different use cases.  If you are still learning the ropes of live streaming, and want to improve your live stream’s visual appearance and VOD, This cloud-based streaming software is a great program to play around with. Like most live streaming platforms, it can allow you to figure out how you want your live streams to look without investing in expensive live streaming editing and mixing software.  OpenShot stands out as a free live streaming software option as they offer:  A few drawbacks of OpenShot are that the video broadcasting software is only focused on editing, and some users complain that it crashed when using it on a laptop. Pricing: OpenShot’s open-source software is free to download and use. Setting Up OpenShot with Dacast: We do not have a dedicated tutorial for using OpenShot with Dacast, but you can follow our encoder setup guide for some general tips. User Review: “OpenShot is an incredibly professional video editing software for video editors. The tools are really powerful and simple to use. You can edit and compose videos from scratch to the advanced level.” – Adnan H. 13. FXhome    FXhome is a type of live streaming software that is focused on the post-production experience.  They offer easy tools for newbies to master, using their simple built-in tutorials to help you learn the basics of video editing and visual effects. They also offer more advanced video editing and visual effects tools for professional online broadcasters with more advanced video editing needs.  FXhome is two different tools, Imerge and Hit Film.  You can use these two tools to take your pictures and videos to the next level. One thing that makes FXhome stand out is that they offer animation tools within their video editing software, allowing you to create custom animations.  FXhome has recently streamlined its pricing structure, making choosing the right plans for your need simpler. They also offer a free version, making it easier to see if you like this broadcast software.  Pricing:  Contact them here to check out FXhome price plans or check out this price guide.  FXhome also has perpetual plans, that provide you with access to 12 months of updates and technical support, as well as multiple licenses, so that you can use the professional versions of their software.  If you already own HItFilm Pro or Imerge Pro, you can extend your free update period for another 12 months, allowing you access to all the latest features:  Compatibility: FXhome works on both macOS and Windows. There are some limitations on compatibility with case-sensitive operating systems. User Review: “I love that HitFilm Express is a program that facilitates editing and that contains many effects for high-quality audiovisual projects.” – Elias A. Setting up FXhome with Dacast: We don’t have a dedicated guide to using FXhome with Dacast, but we recommend checking out our general encoder setup guide for setup support. 14. Restream Studio  Restream is a different type of live streaming software. It doesn’t include any encoding tools.  Restream is a simulcasting broadcasting software that allows you to stream live to multiple platforms simultaneously. For example, if you want to stream live to Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and LinkedIn simultaneously, you can do that with Restream. Many other live streaming software products offer the ability to simulcast; however, that is the primary focus of Restream.  They do offer mixing and production tools focused on the live streaming experience, such as: There are a few drawbacks to Restream.  Compatibility:  Restream works on Windows, macOS, Linux, and gaming consoles. Pricing:  Restream has several pricing plans for both individuals and businesses. These include the following plans: Individuals: Companies: These prices reflect monthly rates when paid monthly, and offer discounts when paid for an entire year in advance. User Review: “The user interface was easy to use and navigate. Streaming and RTMP were easy to connect, and the streaming quality was great. I used it with OBS, and it worked great. Compared to other software, this worked the best!” – Heather B., via Capterra Setting Restream up with Dacast:  We do not have a specific tutorial for setting up Restream with Dacast, but you can follow our encoder setup guide for some general tips. 15. Dacast Video streaming software is vital for professional broadcasting, but an online video platform is essential. Dacast has the tools you need to host your video content. Unlike most live streaming platforms, Dacast’s unique unified live streaming software platform integrates with OBS Studio, VidBlasterX, vMix, and Wirecast to provide the resources you need for a high-quality live broadcast. Compatibility:  Dacast is compatible with both streaming software for macOS and Windows. Some of the detailed features include: New Features! Pros: Cons: Pricing: Dacast’s live streaming pricing plans start at $39/month and come with all the features required for professional broadcasting.  Plans include: You can try all of these features 100% risk-free for 14 days with the Dacast free trial. User Review: “Dacast is a solid streaming platform backed by an excellent support team which has helped me sort out configuration and integration into our e-learning platforms. I also like the fact that it´s highly customizable and integrates well into OBS studio and HTML pages, as well as Facebook. All in all, the quality/value for money ratio is well worth it.” – John C via Capterra Conclusion There you have it. Those are our picks for the best live broadcasting software of 2022. Hopefully, this post made choosing streaming software a bit less complex. As a professional broadcaster, streaming video software is essential. It allows you to add those professional touches you’d see on traditional television broadcasts. This article has given you a starting point for picking the best live broadcasting software for your streaming needs. We also hope that our top streaming video software reviews help you choose one that works well for you. If you’re new to broadcasting, we recommend starting with OBS Studio since it’s free streaming software and easy to use. If you need more, you’ll have the experience you need to navigate more advanced broadcasting software. Are you interested in testing your chosen streaming software with a streaming platform and professional-grade video hosting features? Sign up for the free trial on Dacast to see how your live streaming software of choice works in action. Our trial is 14 days long and provides access to nearly every Dacast feature. No credit card is required. Get Started For Free Any questions, comments, or ideas? Let us know in the comment section below. We appreciate hearing from our readers, and we will get back to you. For regular tips on live streaming and exclusive offers, you can also join our LinkedIn group. Thanks for reading, and as always, best of luck with your live broadcasts! Max Wilbert Max Wilbert is a passionate writer, live streaming practitioner, and has strong expertise in the video streaming industry. Free 14-Day Trial Comparing the Top 10 HLS Streaming Software for Live Broadcasting [2023 Update] Max Wilbert January 06, 2023January 20, 2023 How to Set Up a Live Camera Feed and Webcam Stream in 8 Steps Philline Managuelod January 06, 2023January 06, 2023 How to Create Case Study Videos That Convert New Customers Harmonie Duhamel January 05, 2023January 06, 2023 Read Next Comparing the Top 10 HLS Streaming Software for Live Broadcasting [2023 Update] Max Wilbert January 06, 2023January 20, 2023 How to Set Up a Live Camera Feed and Webcam Stream in 8 Steps Philline Managuelod January 06, 2023January 06, 2023 How to Create Case Study Videos That Convert New Customers Harmonie Duhamel January 05, 2023January 06, 2023 Categories Subscribe Now Stay up-to-date with the latest features and product releases. Cool tips, expert advice and more. +1 855-896-9300 +44 80-8196-3009 +86 105-123-5043 +33 6-34-98-25-41 English Español Italiano Português English OBS Studio Select macOS Version Free and open source software for video recording and live streaming.Download and start streaming quickly and easily on Windows, Mac or Linux. The OBS Project is made possible thanks to generous contributions from our sponsors and backers. Learn more about how you can become a sponsor. Premier Tier Diamond Tier Gold Tier Features High performance real time video/audio capturing and mixing. Create scenes made up of multiple sources including window captures, images, text, browser windows, webcams, capture cards and more. Set up an unlimited number of scenes you can switch between seamlessly via custom transitions. Intuitive audio mixer with per-source filters such as noise gate, noise suppression, and gain. Take full control with VST plugin support. Powerful and easy to use configuration options. Add new Sources, duplicate existing ones, and adjust their properties effortlessly. Streamlined Settings panel gives you access to a wide array of configuration options to tweak every aspect of your broadcast or recording. Modular 'Dock' UI allows you to rearrange the layout exactly as you like. You can even pop out each individual Dock to its own window.  OBS supports all your favorite streaming platforms and more. Create Professional Productions Choose from a number of different and customizable transitions for when you switch between your scenes or add your own stinger video files. Set hotkeys for nearly every sort of action, such as switching between scenes, starting/stopping streams or recordings, muting audio sources, push to talk, and more.  Studio Mode lets you preview your scenes and sources before pushing them live. Adjust your scenes and sources or create new ones and ensure they're perfect before your viewers ever see them. Get a high level view of your production using the Multiview. Monitor 8 different scenes and easily cue or transition to any of them with merely a single or double click. Collaborative Creativity OBS Studio is equipped with a powerful API, enabling plugins and scripts to provide further customization and functionality specific to your needs. Utilize native plugins for high performance integrations or scripts written with Lua or Python that interface with existing sources. Work with developers in the streaming community to get the features you need with endless possibilities. Browse or submit your own in the Resources section © 2012 - 2023. OBS and OBS Studio are created and maintained by Jim. Development by OBS Studio Contributors.Website designed and created by Warchamp7, powered by Kirby CMS. Downloads powered by Fastly. Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Euskara Suomi Français Magyar 日本語 한국어 Português do Brasil ру́сский Svenska Türkçe українська 中文(简体) Products Video Editor Create videos with a single click. Add subtitles, remove background noise and more Screen Recorder Screen &amp; webcam recordings that are easy to edit and share online Live Streaming All-in-one live streaming. Stream to multiple platforms, create recordings, and more! Subtitles &amp; Transcription Automatically add subtitles to your videos. Super-fast, accurate transcriptions in seconds Tools Subtitles &amp; Transcription Toolkit Record More Use Cases Subtitles &amp; Translations Automatically add subtitles to your videos and translate into multiple languages Marketing &amp; Social Media Create captivating videos. Grow audience, engagement and brand Training &amp; e-Learning Create professional training videos quickly and easily Meetings &amp; Communication Communicate better with video. Async meetings, archiving, and more Create Learning More VEED Blog Explore articles and resources to help you achieve your video goals Video Guides Check out our YouTube channel for more video tutorials and courses VEED for Business Video for teams that require collaboration, access and privacy Security &amp; Privacy Data privacy, SSO and more Live Streaming Software Stream live videos on any platform and grow your audience! Grow Your Audience with Our Online Live Streaming Software Live stream your videos on multiple platforms simultaneously using our live streaming software to reach more audiences. Get more views, clicks, and subscribers! VEED is an all-in-one streaming platform perfect for content creators; you can multi-stream your content to platforms like Twitch, YouTube, Facebook, and more. You don’t need to download complicated software like OBS; just stream live straight from your browser! It only takes a few clicks. VEED lets you do Facebook Live, YouTube Live, and others for free. Use our Brand Kit (available to premium subscribers) to create more effective brand awareness campaigns. Customize your design and select different video layouts to establish your brand online. Use our live streaming software for virtual events, podcasts, and more. Invite guests and even turn your live broadcast into clips that you can post later on social media. VEED Live Stream lets you go live easily in minutes! How to Live Stream Your Video: Enter Studio Click on the “Go Live” button, select your desired streaming platforms (Facebook, YouTube, Twitch, etc.), and start streaming! Customize Select your video layout. You can add an overlay to your video, choose a theme or background, add your logo, and more. Go Live When you’re happy with your setup, click on the Go Live button on the upper right corner of your screen. Connect to your selected social media or video-sharing platform/s, and click Go Live again! ‘Live Streaming Software’ Tutorial Reliable free live streaming and recording VEED offers a stable and reliable live streaming experience. You and your audience will always get the most of your content. Apart from live streaming your video, you can also record it, edit, and repurpose the stream. This will boost your content’s value and grow your audience.All your live streams are automatically recorded. Then you can download a copy of your stream. You will find all your live stream recordings on your VEED dashboard. Multi-stream your content in seconds VEED also lets you multi-stream your content—this means you can stream your video on different video-sharing and social media platforms simultaneously. No need to set up separate streams. Go live on VEED and broadcast your stream to Facebook Live, YouTube Live, Twitch, and more.Multi-streaming has never been easier. Just toggle the blue button once you press Go Live, enter your stream key, and click Go Live. You can find more information about finding your Stream Key for different social media platforms in the FAQs. All online; easy to use Our streaming software is super easy to use, so you can focus on producing your best video content. VEED Live is accessible straight from your browser. You don’t need to download and install complicated software like OBS. Customize your feed, personalize it with your logo and more, and go live in just a few clicks! Frequently Asked Questions From your dashboard, click on the Go Live button on the left menu. Customize your feed—add overlays, backgrounds, logos, and more. When you’re happy, click on Go Live again, enter your stream keys for your selected platforms and you’re all set! VEED’s live streaming software is free to use. You don’t need to provide your payment details to get started. To live stream a video, you would need a working camera, a microphone, and a stable internet connection. Make sure all of these are working before you start your live streaming session. From your Timeline or Profile, click on Live Video below the field where you create a new post. From there, you will see all the options and customizations available. This is also where you will see your “Stream Key.” Your stream key lets you go live from platforms like VEED and broadcast the stream on Facebook. Find the Go Live or “Live Video” option from any platform, whether that’s Facebook, YouTube, Twitch, or others. From the options, navigate to the “Stream Key” section. Copy and paste that onto the field provided after you toggle the platform’s button on VEED. Absolutely, yes! You can turn on commenting while you’re doing your live stream. Interact with your viewers to get more engagement on your stream. Discover more: What they say about VEED Veed is a great piece of browser software with the best team I&#x27;ve ever seen.Veed allows for subtitling, editing, effect/text encoding, and many more advanced features that other editors just can&#x27;t compete with. The free version is wonderful, but the Pro version is beyond perfect. Keep in mind that this a browser editor we&#x27;re talking about and the level of quality that Veed allows is stunning and a complete game changer at worst. Chris Y. I love using VEED as the speech to subtitles transcription is the most accurate I&#x27;ve seen on the market.It has enabled me to edit my videos in just a few minutes and bring my video content to the next level Laura Haleydt - Brand Marketing Manager, Carlsberg Importers The Best &amp; Most Easy to Use Simple Video Editing Software!I had tried tons of other online editors on the market and been disappointed. With VEED I haven&#x27;t experienced any issues with the videos I create on there.It has everything I need in one place such as the progress bar for my 1-minute clips, auto transcriptions for all my video content, and custom fonts for consistency in my visual branding. Diana B - Social Media Strategist, Self Employed More from VEED How to Live Stream with VEED: Everything Beginners Need to Go Live Like a Pro Going live for the first time doesn&#x27;t have to make your head spin. From how to live stream to equipment and best practices—here&#x27;s everything you need to easily go live like a pro using VEED. How to find your stream key - Twitch, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter &amp; LinkedIn Want to go live? To multiple platforms at once? Here is a step by step tutorial to find streaming key to all the major streaming platforms so you can easily stream with our LIVE Studio 105 YouTube video ideas for when you don&#x27;t know what to post Want to grow your YouTube channel but are stuck on what to post? We did the work and curated a list of 105 ideas every creator should know about. More than a live streaming software VEED is first and foremost, a video editing software. From its full suite of video editing tools, VEED has expanded its features to include live streaming, video and audio conversion, subtitle translation, screen recording, and more. It is your all-in-one solution for your content creation needs. After live streaming, you can edit your video so you can repurpose it for any social media platform. Try VEED today for free! The easy way to create stunning videos, add subtitles and grow your audience. © Copyright 2023 VEED Product Resources Company The Best Streaming Software for Work &amp; Play Live Streaming &amp; Recording Studio The Swiss army knife for your webcam XSplit&#x27;s Suite of Video Tools Work With Create professional looking live and recorded video for the internet Professional Layouts Our Layout Wizard helps you build multiple professional scenes from podcasts to professional production events. Multistreaming A fan favorite feature, multistreaming allows you to stream to all your favorite platforms including but not limited to YouTube, Twitch, Facebook and many more. Recording Easy and intuitive audio volume management. Multiple scenes. The highest quality of video recordings available. Broadcaster is the perfect tool for creating on demand video content. Remove, replace or blur your background on your webcam Blur Our blurring engine provides a smoother and more efficient background blur than any other solution. Remove VCam can remove your background completely without a green screen. Perfect for professional content creation. Replace Feeling the monday blues? Add your favorite holiday spot as an image or even an animated video to add more life to your stand-up meetings Use Your Phone as a Wireless Webcam No webcam? No problem. With XSplit Connect: Webcam, turn your smartphone into a webcam for conference calls, presentations, or live streams. &quot;XSplit is an intuitive and quick tool for putting on a professional broadcast, every time. It&#x27;s user-friendly and integrates with multiple platforms and apps. I adore its layout and accessibility, and am a fan for life!&quot; &quot;We use XSplit to help power some of the biggest events and gaming tours. We need a robust software that understands our needs and scale things from a casual stream to the biggest gaming production. That&#x27;s the power of XSplit and why events like Evo continue to evolve with this product.&quot; &quot;I use XSplit broadcaster for my streams because it&#x27;s easy to use and reliable. Its seamless integration with NDI and plugins like the gamepad visualizer have been invaluable for my Youtube videos as well. And if I have any questions, I know there&#x27;s a dedicated support team that can help me.&quot; &quot;We use XSplit to simultaneously stream our 24-hour charity fundraising event to our site, YouTube and Twitch and it handles the entire workload with no problem! The interface is simple to learn and it’s easy to keep an eye on key information like CPU/GPU load... &quot;I have used XSplit for many years now and this is because their service is unmatched. I have never had program issues and their simple user interface makes streaming effortless even for beginners. Their staff is on standby to help with any questions or assist with stream settings. These people work hard to ensure that you get the best performance out of their product.&quot; &quot;I find XSplit extremely user-friendly and simple to use. The setup wizard makes determining stream settings a breeze and I can easily incorporate stream add-ons like notifications, custom layouts etc. through the interface. I have used XSplit, OBS and SLOBS over the years, but for my everyday streaming purposes, I fire up XSplit.&quot; &quot;For the all the years I have been streaming on PC, XSplit Broadcaster has been my go-to software to get the stream going quickly, smoothly and easily. It&#x27;s one of many reasons that XSplit will always be my software of choice to go live.&quot; What you can do with XSplit Pitching and Presentations Give professional quality and highly polished presentations. Online Classes &amp; Webinars Easily create professional webinars and online classes. Product Demonstrations Stream interactive demonstrations of your product or app. Interviews and Workshops Host or produce interviews and Q&amp;A sessions remotely with guests. Virtual Events &amp; Conferences Transition your physical event presence to a digital one and increase your viewership. Video Interviews and Calls Take your job interviews or professional calls to the next level. More than 15 Million people use XSplit&#x27;s suite of video tools to work smarter with video © 2023 SplitmediaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Choose your language How to Record a Presentation on Zoom | Easy Step-by-Step 15 Best Video Production Companies for Influential Branding Best Multitrack Recording Software for All Devices (Free &amp; Paid) 10 Best Content Creation Software for Video Creators in 2023 Why Has Video Podcasting Become Increasingly Popular? 40+ Podcast Tools for Successfully Creating a Top-Quality Show Video Production Equipment Essential List for Beginners and Pros 8 Podcast Technologies You Need for Creating a Successful Show How to Make Shareable Podcast Clips for Social Media How to Easily Send Equipment to Guests Remotely - Riverdside.fm How to Create &amp; Record Read Ads Successfully for Monetization Recorded Webinars: Benefits &amp; Tips of Simulated Live Webinars The Best 8 Teleprompter Software for 2023 (Windows &amp; Mac) How to Grow Your Podcast Audience Organically - 10 Easy Ways Podcasting for Small Businesses: Why and How to Start One Zoom Local Recording: How to Record Video Locally on Zoom 20 Podcast Recording Tips for Beginners - Riverside.fm Podcast Rankings: Why It Matters &amp; How to Hit Podcast Charts OBS vs Streamlabs OBS: Which is Better for Recording? Podcasting 101 Guide: What is Podcasting &amp; How to Start Blackmagic Design ATEM Mini Review for Streaming How to Start a Podcast For Free: 10 Easy Steps (2023) 10 Podcast Technology Companies Impacting the Industry Today Remote Production Software &amp; Apps for High-Resolution Video Zoom PodTrak P4 Review: A Quality Multitrack Podcast Recorder How to Nail High-Quality Remote Video Production - Riverside How to Record a Presentation on Google Slides in 6 Simple Steps How to Record a Phone Call Conversation on iPhone in Top Quality How to Improve Bandwidth for Recording Smoothly Online Top Podcast Companies in Podcast Production &amp; Software (2023) Complete Creator Economy Glossary of Terms You Must Know 10 Best Transcription Services for Accurate Digital Transcribing 4 Best Socialive Alternatives for Enterprise Teams (2023) Best Blue Yeti Accessories for a Better Recording Setup The 7 Best Reliable Video SaaS Solutions in 2023 10 Best Free Webcam Software for All PCs in 2023 How to Do a Voice Over Professionally for Online Videos iPhone Webcam Apps: Continuity Camera vs Camo vs EpocCam Use iPhone as Webcam with Continuity Camera in macOS Ventura Why Continuity Camera Is BIG for Creators Belkin Continuity Camera Mount: Is It Worth The Money ($30)? 5 Things We Love About Continuity Camera Audacity for Podcasting: Easy Steps to Make Podcasts on Audacity Full Guide for Editing &amp; Recording on Garageband for Podcasting Scarlett 2i2 3rd Gen Review: A High-Quality Audio Interface Zoom Transcription: How to Easily Transcribe Zoom Meetings Best Video Podcast Camera: iPhone Continuity Camera vs. Webcam vs. Sony Mirrorless How to Fix: iPhone Continuity Camera Isn’t Working Podcasts: The History of Podcasts &amp; When They Were Invented Tascam DR-05 Review: Entry-Level Portable Podcast Recorder Twitter Podcasts: How to Listen &amp; Make Podcasts on Spaces 10 Best Studio Microphones for Recording Vocals in High Quality How to Record Audio on iPhone in the Highest Quality WebRTC Video Streaming: A Full Guide to Interactive Streaming UStudio Review &amp; Walkthrough: Private Podcasting for Businesses Shure MV7 Review: Is It One of the Best Mics for Podcasting? Rode PodMic Review: High-Quality Podcast Mic on a Budget What is a Webcast?: All Companies Need to Know on Webcasting YouTube for Podcasting: Why Start a Video Podcast on YouTube Youtube’s Podcast Page: Why Does It Matter &amp; How To Use It? Podigee Review &amp; Walkthrough: Podcast Hosting &amp; Management Art19 Review &amp; Walkthrough: Enterprise Podcast Host OmnyStudio Review &amp; Walkthrough: Broadcast Podcast Hosting 19 Best Apps to Record Phone Calls on Android &amp; iPhone (2023) How to Record YouTube Videos: The Easiest Guide for All Devices 18 Best Online Video Platforms for All Creators 2023 - Riverside.fm What is Virtual Production &amp; How is it Revolutionizing Film 10 Best TikTok Video Makers &amp; Editing Apps for Engaging Content How to Record Discord Audio: 4 Easy Ways, Tips &amp; Alternatives Joint Stereo vs Stereo: What&#x27;s the Difference &amp; Which is Best Microphone Shock Mount Recommendations: Do You Need One? Event Livestream: How to Live Stream An Event - Riverside.fm RSS.Com Review &amp; Walkthrough: Easy, All-Round Podcast Host How to Effectively Improve Zoom Recording Quality - Riverside.fm 7 Best Recording Apps for Android in 2023 (Free &amp; Paid) How to Easily Make a Tutorial Video Step-by-Step Guide What is an SRT File &amp; How to Create One to Boost Your Content Top 10 Enterprise Video Platforms for Content Creation in 2023 Video Bitrate: How to Choose the Ideal Bitrate for Your Video Whooshkaa Review &amp; Walkthrough - Riverside.fm 15 Best Webcam Recording Software for High-Quality Videos Podcast.co Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough Tips for Video Recording Yourself in Professional Quality Fireside Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough Ausha Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough Corporate Training Videos: 15+ Impactful Examples to Learn From LinkedIn Live: How to Successfully Go Live on LinkedIn Pinecast Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough What is Lossless Audio? - Full Guide on Lossless Audio Files 15 Effective Tips for Creating a Professional Video When Filming at Home 10 Best OBS Alternatives for Video Creators in 2023 (Free &amp; Paid) 20 Best Business Podcasts for Successful Growth in 2023 The 20 Best Interview Podcasts to Learn From in 2023 - Riverside.fm 8 Best 4k Video Editing Software for Top-Quality Content (2023) 30 Best Spotify Podcasts Worth Listening To 25 Best Joe Rogan Podcasts You Must Listen To - Riverside.fm How to Achieve a Spot on Spotify Podcast Charts Submit a Podcast to the Podcast Index (2023) - Riverside.fm Rodecaster Pro Review: All-in-One Podcast Mixer Key Features Lossy vs Lossless Audio Formats: How to Choose the Right One? Submit your Podcast to Pandora in 5 Steps (Full Guide) iHeartRadio Podcast Submission Step-by-Step Guide - Riverside How to Submit a Podcast to Stitcher: 4 Easy Steps - Riverside.fm The Best Microphones for Computers in 2023 (Windows &amp; Mac) How to Submit a Podcast on Podchaser - Riverside.fm Patreon Podcasts: How to Monetize &amp; Top Patreon Podcasts 2023 How to Submit a Podcast to Amazon Music &amp; Audible (2023) How to Edit Videos: Easy Steps and 15 Tips for Beginners 10 Top Podcast Training Courses for Beginners 2023 (Free &amp; Paid) How to Submit A Podcast to TuneIn: Complete Step-by-Step Guide 15 Best Skype Call Recorders for Windows &amp; Mac PC (2023) Podcast Websites: 25+ Best Examples and Ideas in 2023 Castos Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough How to Submit your Podcast to Google Podcasts: Full Guide 2023 Talking-head Videos: Complete Guide With Examples &amp; Tips Captivate.fm Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough How to Use a DSLR as a Webcam - Easy Steps to Learn How Blubrry Review &amp; Walkthrough: Podcast Host With the Essentials Sounder.fm Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough 9 Best Podcast Microphones For Every Need and Budget (2023) Resonate Recordings Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough Complete Post Production Guide For Creators (Audio &amp; Video) 10 Best Zoom Alternatives &amp; Competitors for Call Recording (2023) Top 9 Best Video Hosting Sites for 2023 (Free &amp; Paid) How to Make a Successful Podcast: 15 Effective Tips to Try Podomatic Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough 16 Tips on How to Get More Podcast Downloads (2023) Ultimate Guide on Virtual Events: Tips &amp; Ideas with Examples Want more out of your online recording studio and video platform duo? This one’s for you! 10 Best How-To Video Examples &amp; How to Create One (Full Guide) Acast Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough 55+ Top Podcasts to Listen to in 2023 (According to Genre) Megaphone Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough 15+ Ways to Make Money Online as a Content Creator Three-Point Lighting Guide: What Is It &amp; The Best Way to Setup AudioBoom Review: Podcast Hosting Focused on Advertising What is a Simulcast?: Definition, Meaning &amp; How It Works The 14 Best Popular Podcasts to Listen to in 2023 (Spotify &amp; Apple) Libsyn Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough Riverside is now on iPad! Transistor.fm Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough Simplecast Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough The 9 Best Bluetooth Microphones for 2023 &amp; How to Use One How to Compress a Video | 5 Easy Ways Without Losing Quality Spreaker Review: Pros, Cons &amp; Platform Walkthrough Videography: Definition, Basics, and Practical Tips to Get Better What is an RSS Feed: Beginners Guide on How RSS Feeds Work What is a Webinar &amp; How Does it Work? A Full Guide on Webinars Riverside partners with Anchor by Spotify: Create your video podcast for millions of viewers RedCircle Review &amp; Walkthrough How to make a TikTok Video: Easy Beginners Guide to TikTok The Best Microphone Stands for Every Budget The 14 Best Video Editing Apps for Any Device (2023) Podbean Review: User-Friendly Podcast Hosting Platform Webinar Glossary: A Complete List of Must Know Webinar Terms Anchor.fm Podcast Host: Review &amp; Walkthrough How to Add Captions &amp; Subtitles to a Video: 5 Easy Methods How To Choose The Best Zoom Recorder For Your Needs The Riverside.fm A-to-Z Glossary of Video Production Terms How to Listen to Podcasts For Free on Any Device - 101 Guide How to Create and Use Podcast Audiograms to Promote Your Show The Ultimate Guide to Corporate Video Production How to Add Music to a Video | Step-by-Step Guide, Easy &amp; Quick How Much Do Podcasters Make? How to Record a Teams Meeting (On Any Device) Best Android Microphones For Podcasters &amp; Video Creators How to Transcribe Audio to Text (Automatically &amp; For Free) Best USB Audio Interfaces For Podcasters &amp; Video Creators How to Go Live on Facebook: 101 Guide for Beginners How to Live Stream on YouTube From Any Device: Beginner Guide A Guide to Generate Audio Waveform Videos for Social Media Dynamic Microphone vs Condenser: Differences &amp; Which to Use How to Edit YouTube Videos Easily: Complete Beginner Guide How to Live Stream on Discord (Quick &amp; Easy) | 2023 Guide Podcast Recording (Online): Introductory Guide to Get Started Live Stream Equipment For Every Budget (2023 Overview) Corporate Communication in a Virtual World (Best-Practices) How to Create Professional Training Videos For Employees Panel Discussions: Full Guide to Hosting A Successful One 10 Best Video Capture Software for (Screen) Recording in 2023 What is a Town Hall Meeting?: A Comprehensive Guide &amp; Definition Introducing Multi-layout Clips: Create Clips for TikTok, Instagram, and more! 12 Best Cameras for Streaming Live Video in 2023 - Riverside The 10 Best-Rated Microphones for Streaming (2023 Overview) Condenser Microphone: Buyer Guide to Pick The Best One Best Dynamic Microphones: An In-Depth Guide for All Budgets Video Podcast Examples: What You Can Learn From The Best? 8 Best Streaming Webcams For Creators in 2023 The 10 Best Live Streaming Encoders: Software &amp; Hardware Solutions 6 Best Webinar Platforms for Companies (2023 Overview) How to Live Stream on Any Device and to Any Platform (2023) 6 Best Live Streaming Apps &amp; Platforms For Any Device (2023) How to Make Money on YouTube in 2023: 9 Practical Ways The Best Streaming Setup (Equipment List, Costs, Tips) How to Stream on Twitch: Full Beginners Guide (2023) Vodcast: Everything There Is To Know About Vodcasting The 7 Best Video Switchers for Video Production - Riverside The Complete Guide to Podcasting For Business - Riverside.fm How to Edit a Zoom Recording (Quick &amp; Easy) - Riverside.fm B-Roll Guide: Definition &amp; How to Use it for Video Content The 8 Best Streaming Software For Online Creators (2023) The Best Side-by-Side Video App to Record Your Interviews 14 Best DSLR Microphones &amp; How to Choose a Camera Mic How to Record Zoom Meetings With or Without Permission How to Record a Google Meet On Any Device (Quick &amp; Easy) How to Cite a Podcast in APA, MLA, Chicago &amp; Harvard Style How to Record a Podcast with Multiple Mics Buzzsprout Review: The Podcast Hosting Platform&#x27;s Pros &amp; Cons The Best Podcast Editing Services and Software in 2023 How to Make Money Podcasting in 2023: 12 Effective Ways The Lowdown on How to Start a Podcast and Make Money from It 11 Best Audio Recording Software for All Budgets &amp; PCs in 2023 Best Podcast Recording Apps (Desktop, Mobile) - Riverside.fm How to Record Podcasts in Multitrack + the best way to do it 10 Best XLR Cables For Podcasters in 2023 (For Every Budget) The Best Podcast Making Apps to Start Recording in 2023 Everything you need for a successful 4 person podcast setup 13 Best Cameras for YouTube Vloggers &amp; Creators (2023) 10 Best Podcasts of All Time: Quality Shows To Listen to Overview of The 8 Best Free Podcast Hosting Platforms How to Add Captions &amp; Subtitles to Videos (Quick &amp; Easy) How to Record Webex Meetings On Any Device (Quick &amp; Simple) 25 Podcast Tips to Start a Successful Show (2023) - Riverside.fm How to Record a Phone Call for Podcasts in High Quality (3 Ways) How to Sponsor Podcasts &amp; Get a Positive ROI - Riverside.fm Podcast Advertising: The What, Why &amp; How of Podcast Ads Podcast Promotion: 14 Actionable Ideas That You Can Use Today Video Marketing Strategy In A Digital World - Riverside.fm The Best Lavalier Microphones for Podcast &amp; Video Recordings Video Podcast Production: How to Start a Podcast with Video in 5 Steps 10 Best Video Editing Software in 2023 (Every Level + Budget) The Best Podcast Apps in 2023 for both listening + recording Best Audio Editing Software for All Levels and Budgets (2023) 50+ YouTube Channel Name Ideas - Riverside.fm How to Record Online Videos Easily in High-Definition 5 Best Mic Arms for Podcasters &amp; Video Creators - Riverside.fm How to Record a Video Podcast (Remotely) in 5 Steps How to Record Your Screen Easily on a PC or Mobile Device What Is Bitrate &amp; Why It Matters for Recording | Ultimate Guide 20 Best Webinar Software Platforms (Features, Benefits, Reviews) How to Record Skype Calls (For Podcasts &amp; Video Content) How to Make a YouTube Video (The Right Way) - Riverside.fm 33+ YouTube Video Ideas + A Framework to Come Up With Yours The Best Voice Recorders for Podcasting and Other Uses 10 Best Voice Recorder Apps for High-Quality (Android &amp; iPhone) Podcast Show Notes: Templates + How to Write Your Own Podcast RSS Feed: What Is It, Why You Need It, How To Get It 16 Best Screen Recording Software for 2023 (Free &amp; Paid) How to Record a Facetime Call with Audio: All You Need to Know What is a Podcast &amp; How They Work? - Explanation &amp; Examples Choosing A Podcast Format &amp; Best Practices To Follow How to Record a Podcast like a Pro (The Easy Way) Automatically Transcribe Video to Text With Riverside.fm Starting a Business Podcast in 2023: What You Need to Know How to Use Phone as a Webcam for HD Video (iOS &amp; Android) A Guide To Live Podcasting | Audio &amp; Video (2023) The Best Podcast Creator Apps to Start Your Very Own Podcast 12 Best Video Recording Software for All Devices in 2023 How to Video Record Yourself Presenting a PowerPoint An Overview Of The 10 Best Laptops for Podcasting Riverside.fm is now SOC 2 Type 2 Compliant! How to Record with OBS (Step-by-Step Tutorial) How to get Your Podcast That all-Important 5-Star Review Podcast Names: A Complete Guide to Picking the Right One How to Record Streaming Video: Best 4 Ways for Mac &amp; PC (2023) What to Look For in a Podcast Recorder + Our Recommendation How to Succeed With Podcast Ads in 2023 - Riverside.fm Ultimate Podcast Directories Guide: Where to Submit Your Show How to Write Amazing Podcast Descriptions (With Examples) All You (Don’t) Need to Know About Podcast Hosting Sites The Ultimate Guide to Easy + Affordable Video Transcription Introducing Riverside 2.0: A Powerful Remote Content Creation Platform Podcast Logos: Examples &amp; How to Design Your Own Best Podcast Equipment for Beginners &amp; Pros on a $100 Budget The Best Audacity Alternatives for Recording Your Podcast How to Upload Your Podcast to Apple Podcasts (iTunes) [2023] YouTube Podcasts: Best Practices from Top Video Podcasters How to Automatically Sync Audio &amp; Video Sources (The Easy Way) Most Common Video File Formats, Codecs &amp; Containers Explained The 8 Best Pop Filters for Podcasters in 2023 (For Every Budget) Podcast Analytics: Why, How &amp; What To Measure Best Podcast Hosting Platforms: 2023 Guide Best Branded Podcasts &amp; What You Can Learn From Them 12 Tips on How to Make Podcast Cover Art That Works Advanced Tips to Get a High-Paying Podcast Sponsorship How, Why &amp; When (Not) To Join A Podcast Network How to Get Podcast Sponsorships How to Amp Up Your Show Using a Podcast Soundboard Video Production Process: Easy Step-by-Step Guide - Riverside What&#x27;s The Best vMix Alternative For Your Needs? How to Make an HD Split Screen Video How To Produce A Podcast: Full Step-by-Step Guide Private Podcasts Explained: Why, When &amp; How To Create One Video Lighting: How to Setup &amp; The Best Lighting Kits The 8 Best Software to Record Your Reaction Videos How to Make a Reaction Video (The Easy Way!) Best Reaction Videos (&amp; Why They&#x27;re So Popular) How to Start a Podcast | Full Guide with Easy Steps (2023) Podcast Intro: How To Hook Listeners With It (+ Free Script) How To Record a Webinar in High-Quality on Any Device (2023) We are unable to find results for Did you mean: Want more out of your online recording studio and video platform duo? This one’s for you! How to Promote, Grow, and Monetize Your Podcast in 2023 How to Come Up with Great Video Podcast Topics Video Podcast Equipment: Video Starter Kit Essentials (2023) Why Launch a Video Podcast and How Can You Benefit? Riverside.fm: A Skype Alternative for Podcasting Riverside.fm as Zencastr Alternative: Which One is Best? Ultimate List of Podcast Interview Questions to Ask [in 2023] Best Podcast Equipment for Any Budget (2023) Full Guide on How to Easily Build a Podcast Studio at Home How To Make Your Podcast Recording Sound Better: Best Podcast Setup How Tim Ferriss, Joe Rogan, Ezra Klein &amp; The Daily Make Their Podcasts Where To Find The Best Royalty-Free Music for Podcasts [2023] How to Upload a Podcast to Spotify (Complete 2023 Guide) The 11 Best Podcast Headphones [2023 Guide] Introducing the Riverside.fm iOS App How To Record a Webinar in High-Quality on Any Device (2023) Podcast Interview Preparation: How to Find, Invite &amp; Prep Guests Empowering a Global Community of Content Creators Clubhouse Guide: How to Record a Session How to Pre-Record Your (Virtual) Event How to Record Video Testimonials How Podcasters Can Use Clubhouse Double-Ender Recording for Podcasting with Remote Guests 100+ Creative Podcast Topics Ideas in 2023 WAV vs MP3: What&#x27;s the Difference &amp; Which Is Better for Podcasters How To Record A High-Quality Podcast Remotely [in 2023] The Ultimate Frame Rate Guide for Beginners - Riverside.fm Podcast Script: How to Write One [With Free Templates &amp; Examples] Best Podcast Mixer: Audio Interface vs. (USB) Audio Mixer Best Podcast Editing Software: Which One To Choose In 2023 Podcast Camera: Choosing The Best One For Video Podcasting What Is Audio SEO &amp; Why It Matters? Best External Microphones for iPhone &amp; iOS Recordings Best OpenReel Alternative for Your Remote Video Recording How to Schedule a Podcast [Incl. Free Podcast Planning Template] How To Upload Video Podcasts To Podbean [2023 Step-by-Step Guide] Best USB Microphones to Buy in 2023 [Podcasting &amp; Recording] How to Record Separate Video Tracks in Full HD With Zoom Podcast Starter Kit Recommendations for Every Budget &amp; Setup Podcast Glossary: A Technical Guide to Podcasting Podcast Statistics and Trends (&amp; Why They Matter) Best Practice for Dynamic Ad Insertion in Podcasts How To Publish A Podcast (Beginner’s Guide 2023) Podcast Transcription: How &amp; Why You Must Transcribe Podcasts How to Start a Podcast on YouTube in 7 Steps [2023 Guide] How to Monetize Your Podcast with Programmatic Ads How to Record a Podcast On iPhone (&amp; iPad) Podcast Editing: How to Do It In 10 Steps (Complete Tutorial) Podcast Intro: How To Hook Listeners With It (+ Free Script) Best Reaction Videos (&amp; Why They&#x27;re So Popular) How to Make a Reaction Video (The Easy Way!) Video Lighting: How to Setup &amp; The Best Lighting Kits Private Podcasts Explained: Why, When &amp; How To Create One What&#x27;s The Best vMix Alternative For Your Needs? How to Amp Up Your Show Using a Podcast Soundboard Advanced Tips to Get a High-Paying Podcast Sponsorship Best Podcast Hosting Platforms: 2023 Guide Podcast Analytics: Why, How &amp; What To Measure The 8 Best Pop Filters for Podcasters in 2023 (For Every Budget) Most Common Video File Formats, Codecs &amp; Containers Explained How to Automatically Sync Audio &amp; Video Sources (The Easy Way) YouTube Podcasts: Best Practices from Top Video Podcasters How to Upload Your Podcast to Apple Podcasts (iTunes) [2023] The Best Audacity Alternatives for Recording Your Podcast Best Podcast Equipment for Beginners &amp; Pros on a $100 Budget Podcast Logos: Examples &amp; How to Design Your Own Introducing Riverside 2.0: A Powerful Remote Content Creation Platform The Ultimate Guide to Easy + Affordable Video Transcription All You (Don’t) Need to Know About Podcast Hosting Sites How to Write Amazing Podcast Descriptions (With Examples) How to Succeed With Podcast Ads in 2023 - Riverside.fm What to Look For in a Podcast Recorder + Our Recommendation How to Record Streaming Video: Best 4 Ways for Mac &amp; PC (2023) Podcast Names: A Complete Guide to Picking the Right One How to get Your Podcast That all-Important 5-Star Review How to Record with OBS (Step-by-Step Tutorial) Riverside.fm is now SOC 2 Type 2 Compliant! An Overview Of The 10 Best Laptops for Podcasting How to Video Record Yourself Presenting a PowerPoint The Best Podcast Creator Apps to Start Your Very Own Podcast How to Use Phone as a Webcam for HD Video (iOS &amp; Android) Starting a Business Podcast in 2023: What You Need to Know Automatically Transcribe Video to Text With Riverside.fm Choosing A Podcast Format &amp; Best Practices To Follow What is a Podcast &amp; How They Work? - Explanation &amp; Examples How to Record a Facetime Call with Audio: All You Need to Know 16 Best Screen Recording Software for 2023 (Free &amp; Paid) Podcast RSS Feed: What Is It, Why You Need It, How To Get It Podcast Show Notes: Templates + How to Write Your Own 10 Best Voice Recorder Apps for High-Quality (Android &amp; iPhone) The Best Voice Recorders for Podcasting and Other Uses 33+ YouTube Video Ideas + A Framework to Come Up With Yours How to Make a YouTube Video (The Right Way) - Riverside.fm How to Record Skype Calls (For Podcasts &amp; Video Content) 20 Best Webinar Software Platforms (Features, Benefits, Reviews) What Is Bitrate &amp; Why It Matters for Recording | Ultimate Guide How to Record Your Screen Easily on a PC or Mobile Device 5 Best Mic Arms for Podcasters &amp; Video Creators - Riverside.fm 50+ YouTube Channel Name Ideas - Riverside.fm We are unable to find results for Did you mean: Blog The 8 Best Streaming Software For Online Creators (2023) Content What is streaming software? What is a live streaming platform? What is the best stream software? Factors to consider when choosing the best streaming software What Equipment Do I Need to Live Stream? 8 Best Streaming Software in 2023 Best Streaming Software Overall Streaming software FAQs Try Riverside today The next-gen video recording platform for professional creators. Last Updated January 2, 2023 The 8 Best Streaming Software For Online Creators (2023)  by . 11 min read Linkedin Twitter Facebook Email Link Copy Link Live Streaming is a fast-growing medium for creators. The ability to live broadcast content directly to your audience is unbeatable and helps you build a strong community feeling with your viewers. That said, live streaming isn’t always the most straightforward process. An essential part of streaming any type of content is your streaming software, but how do you know which one is right for you?  In this guide, we take you through 8 of the best live streaming software available for different use cases so that you can make an informed decision before you get started. TL;DR What is streaming software? Also known as ‘encoding software,’ streaming software is key to streaming high-quality video or audio over the internet to major live streaming platforms, social media platforms, and other applications.  What does live streaming software do? Streaming software is called a ‘software encoding program’ that converts video or audio input into a digital format that can be played across various devices and platforms.  In addition, most live streaming software allows you to maximize audio and video quality, switch between multiple audio/video inputs, live mix during your broadcast, and customize your stream for a personal touch.  You’ll also see references to hardware encoders that carry the same function, but we don’t look at them in this article.  What is a live streaming platform?  A live streaming platform is the final destination for the content converted by your streaming software. Live streaming platforms are essentially video hosting platform that allows you to broadcast your content. Some platforms let you stream across different channels simultaneously to maximize your reach and exposure.  Popular examples include Twitch, YouTube, Facebook Live, and LinkedIn.  What is the best stream software? Understandably, all creators looking to tap into the world of live streaming will want to use the best software available. Unfortunately, it’s not that simple. Depending on your specific budgetary, functionality, and content creation needs, your criteria for streaming software will be different.  Factors to consider when choosing the best streaming software Before selecting a streaming software, here are a few of the factors that you should take into account:  Budget and available pricing plans  Before you can consider additional functionality, you need to have a good idea of how much (if anything) you can pay for your streaming software. Although the free plan might be plenty, often, if you opt for a premium plan, you’ll gain access to exclusive features and extended functionality.  Multiple Inputs  The flexibility and freedom to include more than one video source are critical for live video streaming. For example, if you’re a gamer, you may want both your screen and yourself to be visible. Your software encoder should enable you to seamlessly switch between your video inputs during your broadcast.  Live Mixing Abilities  If you want the creative freedom to include other media (audio or visual) in your stream, take a look at what kind of live mixing is possible with the streaming software you have in mind. In addition, if your live stream is branded, keep an eye out for software that provides for customization with logos, transitions, and more.  Local Recording of Your Stream  You may think live streaming is all about the live element. However, the ability to locally record your broadcast in full HD means you can reuse your content and allow your viewers to replay the stream! Ability to Include Guests   Depending on the type of content you’re live streaming, you may want the ability to include remote guests in your live stream. Supported Platforms  Although most streaming software will support and be compatible with the major streaming platforms, it is good practice to verify this. You should also look for streaming software that allows you to broadcast to several platforms at once (i.e., a multistreaming platform). This is essential for maximizing your reach and streaming your content to a diverse audience.  Supported Operating Systems You’ll need to check that your ideal streaming software is compatible with your computer’s operating system.  What Equipment Do I Need to Live Stream? Although every streamers’ setup looks a little different, here are the essential pieces of equipment you’ll need to start live streaming:  Video Camera or Webcam  If you’re just starting, chances are your computer’s built-in webcam will do the trick. However, if you’re a stickler for quality, you can invest in an external camera or webcam. Whatever you choose, ensure your camera has an HDMI port to ensure it’s compatible with your capture card (more on this later).  The options available to you will come down to your budget, but you’ll be able to find something to suit your needs.  Microphone A good-quality microphone is an absolute must for live streaming. Although you can usually get away with mediocre video quality, you should not compromise on your audio - this is what maintains audience engagement. Luckily, there is a wide variety of mics available for every budget. Why not find the best microphone for your setup using our guide?  Capture Card  If you’re new to live streaming, you may not be aware that you’ll need a capture card. This device transfers your video from your camera to your live streaming setup and is necessary if you’re using a software encoder (which, we presume you are). Good Lighting  Although it can be easy to overlook lighting, it pays to know its value. Good lighting is key to a professional-grade live stream. It instantly maximizes your stream’s production quality and helps keep your viewers engaged.  Streaming Software / Software Encoder As we’ve seen, the software encoder is the software that converts your content for it to be streamed. As we’ll see below, several options are available that cater to different budgets and needs.  Stable Internet Connection  As far as possible, try and ensure that you’ve got a robust, stable, and reliable internet connection. This will ensure your stream is consistent and as high quality as possible. Streaming platform  Once you’ve got everything in place, you’ll need to identify the final destination for your stream. This choice will depend on your target audience, content genre, and ultimate aims for your stream.  8 Best Streaming Software in 2023 Here we&#x27;ve gathered the best live streaming software available for a variety of use cases: Riverside  Riverside gives you the best of both worlds. Easily livestream on Riverside or to other major streaming platforms and get an HD local recording of your broadcast. Simply sit down to record and start livestreaming without the need for an encoder.  Price: Free plan, Paid plans start from $15/month.  Supported Operating Systems: N/A, Riverside is web browser-based. Multiple inputs: Yes, share your screen and your camera simultaneously.  Local recording: Yes, and if you include guests, their video and audio will be locally recorded on a separate track. Guests: Yes, have up to 7 remote guests.  Supported live stream platforms:  LinkedIn, Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Twitch via direct integration; any other platform via custom RTMP. Other features:  OBS studio - ‘Open Broadcaster Software’  Price: Free &amp; open-source software.   Supported Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux.  Multiple inputs: Yes.  Local recording: Yes. Guests: Yes, but you have to use a call software like Zoom or Skype. Supported live stream platforms:  All major platforms (with multistreaming).  Other features:  Streamlabs OBS/Desktop  Streamlabs OBS is a cloud-based streaming software that takes inspiration from OBS and was created as a more user-friendly version.  Price: Free &amp; Open source, Prime Membership - $19/month.  Supported Operating Systems: Mac OS.  Multiple inputs: Yes. Local recording: Yes.  Guests: Only if using a video or voice call software such as Skype or Discord.  Supported live stream platforms: Twitch, Youtube, and Facebook, multistream is available with Prime membership.  Other features:  Twitch Studio  Designed specifically for Twitch users and still in the Beta phase.  Price: Free for Twitch users.  Supported Operating Systems: Windows and Mac.  Multiple inputs: Multiple audio sources.  Recording: Yes, local recording.   Guests: Twitch’s Squad Stream allows up to 4 creators to go live and stream together. Supported live stream platforms: Twitch   Other features:  Wirecast  Price: $599 for Wirecast Studio Plan, $799 for Wirecast Pro Plan.  Supported Operating Systems: Windows and Mac.  Multiple inputs: Unlimited Inputs.  Recording: Yes, stream and record. ISO recording means you can record each input into an individual recording. Guests: Yes with Wirecast Rendevous Conferencing, 2 with Studio Plan, 7 with Pro Plan.  Supported live stream platforms: Unlimited destinations with multistreaming.  Other features:  Lightstream Studio Price:  Gamer (console streams with overlays and alerts)  $7/month - max 720p, 30FPS resolution, or $14month - max 1080p, 30FPS resolution. Creator (Advanced Live Video Production)  $20/month - max 720p, 30FPS resolution, $40/month - max 1080p, 30FPS resolution. Supported Operating Systems: Web-browser-based.  Multiple inputs: Unlimited Inputs.  Recording: Yes, stream and record. ISO recording means you can record each input into an individual recording. Guests: Up to 7 remote guests with Creator Plan.    Supported live stream platforms: All major platforms as well as custom RTMP.   Other features:  vMix Price: Lifetime License: BasicHD  - $60, Pro - $1200, Subscription License: $50/month.  Supported Operating Systems: Windows.  Multiple inputs: Yes, it supports a variety of inputs, up to 4 inputs with Basic HD and up to 1000 inputs with Pro plan.  Recording: Yes, but not local.  Guests: Supported if you purchase Vmix Call. Supported live stream platforms:  Livestream to up to 3 streaming platforms at once.  Other features:  X-Split Broadcaster  Price: $60/year.  Supported Operating Systems: Windows.  Multiple inputs: Yes, compatible with a variety of sources.  Recording: Yes, local recording with multitrack audio.  Guests:  Only if you use a video/audio call software like Discord.  Supported live stream platforms: Multistream to major platforms simultaneously. Other features:  Best Streaming Software Overall The best streaming software for you depends on your needs and what features are most important for you. To help you out, we&#x27;ve listed some of the best live streaming software based on their use cases. Best for streaming and recording  If you&#x27;re looking to record your stream, you&#x27;ll want to make sure you&#x27;re using software that can capture high-resolution video. In this case, it&#x27;s best to find software that records locally so your internet connection won&#x27;t impact your recording quality. For this we suggest Riverside. You&#x27;ll be able to multistream to various platforms, and invite audience members for live call-ins, all without sacrificing recording quality. With Riverside, you can record in up to 4K resolution with separate tracks for audio and video files for each participant in your livestream. If recording is your priority this is a sound option. Best for Livestreamers on a Budget &amp; Beginners  For those on a budget, there&#x27;s no need to worry! You can still stream with quality software. Although OBS has a bit of a learning curve, it&#x27;s a great option for those on a budget as it offers a lot of features completely free. For beginners who might find OBS a little overwhelming, Streamlabs is the way to go or you can also try Twitch Studio. Best for Professional Events If you&#x27;re hosting a live streaming event, you&#x27;ll want a platform that can host a large audience, but also provide interactive tools to engage with them. Your best options here are either Wirecast or Riverside. Best for E-Sports, Gamers &amp; Console Gameplay For the gamers, you&#x27;ll want live streaming software that includes high-quality screen recording, as well as webcam and audio recording. Some livestream gamers also enjoy special effects and customization templates. From our list you can try Lightsream Studio, vMix, or X-Split Broadcaster for E-sports or gaming streaming. Best live editing software Just because you&#x27;re streaming live doesn&#x27;t mean you can&#x27;t edit as you go. You may want to mix content live or just add special effects. Some options for live video editing software include Riverside, vMix, and X-Split Broadcaster although most of the options above have some live video editing features. Streaming software FAQs Is there better software than OBS? As we’ve seen, OBS isn’t the only streaming software out there. Many different options may cater better to what you’re looking for.  What streaming software should I use in 2023? The answer to this all depends on what you’re looking for. If you’re looking for a professional and effective solution, why not try Riverside.fm? If you’re on a budget and looking for streaming software that is easy to use, give OBS or Streamlabs OBS a try.  What&#x27;s an alternative to OBS? All of our recommendations above are reliable alternatives to OBS, offering some of the same features and some additional functionality.  Is it better to stream from twitch or OBS? OBS is a software encoder, while Twitch is a live streaming platform, so there’s no accurate comparison here. If you stream to Twitch using OBS, then you’ll most probably have an excellent quality live stream.  What can I use instead of Streamlabs OBS? Streamlabs OBS is an excellent option for beginners and live streamers new to streaming. Once you’re ready to move on, you could try Riverside.fm or VMix, for example.  Which is better, OBS or XSplit Broadcaster? It depends on what you’re looking for. OBS offers a great budget option and might be appealing because it’s open-source and customizable. On the other hand, XSplit offers extensive professional functionality because it’s a premium product.  Do most streamers use OBS? OBS is one of the most popular streaming software out there, but that doesn’t mean it’s the only one. Streamers commonly use all of the software we’ve listed above.  Should I use OBS to record? OBS has excellent screen recording capability and will most likely do the trick. ‍  Tags: Tools: Riverside.fm team The Riverside.fm team gathers to write up actionable resources to help you start, create, publish, and promote your content. Subscribe to our newsletter Highly curated content, case studies, Riverside updates, and more. Related articles 9 min read How to Record Streaming Video: Best 4 Ways for Mac &amp; PC (2023)  Learn how to record a streaming video in 4 easy ways. We cover the best free and paid recording options for streaming including software and hardware. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse varius enim in eros elementum tristique. Duis cursus, mi quis viverra ornare, eros dolor interdum nulla, ut commodo diam libero vitae erat. Aenean faucibus nibh et justo cursus id rutrum lorem imperdiet. Nunc ut sem vitae risus tristique posuere. min read How to Record Streaming Video: Best 4 Ways for Mac &amp; PC (2023)  Learn how to record a streaming video in 4 easy ways. We cover the best free and paid recording options for streaming including software and hardware. 11 min read How to Record Your Screen Easily on a PC or Mobile Device  Find out how to screen record on a Windows and Mac desktop or on an iPhone and Android Phone. We cover every step for recording your screen. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse varius enim in eros elementum tristique. Duis cursus, mi quis viverra ornare, eros dolor interdum nulla, ut commodo diam libero vitae erat. Aenean faucibus nibh et justo cursus id rutrum lorem imperdiet. Nunc ut sem vitae risus tristique posuere. min read How to Record Your Screen Easily on a PC or Mobile Device  Find out how to screen record on a Windows and Mac desktop or on an iPhone and Android Phone. We cover every step for recording your screen. 15 min read A Guide To Live Podcasting | Audio &amp; Video (2023)  Discover the many benefits of live podcasting and find out how to record a live podcast with audio and video in the highest quality possible. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse varius enim in eros elementum tristique. Duis cursus, mi quis viverra ornare, eros dolor interdum nulla, ut commodo diam libero vitae erat. Aenean faucibus nibh et justo cursus id rutrum lorem imperdiet. Nunc ut sem vitae risus tristique posuere. min read A Guide To Live Podcasting | Audio &amp; Video (2023)  Discover the many benefits of live podcasting and find out how to record a live podcast with audio and video in the highest quality possible. 9 min read How to Record a Presentation on Zoom | Easy Step-by-Step   Published Jan 16, 2023 by 9 min read How to Record a Presentation on Zoom | Easy Step-by-Step   Published Jan 16, 2023 by 14 min read 15 Best Video Production Companies for Influential Branding   Published Jan 16, 2023 by 14 min read 15 Best Video Production Companies for Influential Branding   Published Jan 16, 2023 by 9 min read Best Multitrack Recording Software for All Devices (Free &amp; Paid)   Published Jan 16, 2023 by 9 min read Best Multitrack Recording Software for All Devices (Free &amp; Paid)   Published Jan 16, 2023 by 9 min read How to Record a Presentation on Zoom | Easy Step-by-Step Riverside.fm is an audio-video tool that collapses the pod/broadcast studio experience into your browser. The service captures lossless audio and up to 4K video locally, syncs it, and uploads as you go.  Published Jan 16, 2023 by 14 min read 15 Best Video Production Companies for Influential Branding Riverside.fm is an audio-video tool that collapses the pod/broadcast studio experience into your browser. The service captures lossless audio and up to 4K video locally, syncs it, and uploads as you go.  Published Jan 16, 2023 by 9 min read Best Multitrack Recording Software for All Devices (Free &amp; Paid) Riverside.fm is an audio-video tool that collapses the pod/broadcast studio experience into your browser. The service captures lossless audio and up to 4K video locally, syncs it, and uploads as you go.  Published Jan 16, 2023 by Try Riverside today The next gen podcast and video creation platform for creators. Company Product Features Use Cases Resources Tools Company Product Features Resources Use Cases Tools Podcast guides © RiversideFM, Inc. Best Facebook Live Stream Software for Mac and PC! Complete roundup &amp; review of the best Facebook Live Stream Software for Mac and Windows PC right now, with a ton of tips &amp; tools to improve the quality of your Facebook Lives! Links When available, we use affiliate links and may earn a commission! Download the Free PDF Guide: The ULTIMATE Video Editing Process! Recommended Live Streaming Software: Get Professional Animated Titles for your Livestreams: Best Live Stream Software for Facebook (Mac &amp; Windows!) Whether it&#8217;s multi-person interviews, live screen sharing, on-screen chat, or just fancy branding animations and tools &#8211; third-party Facebook Live software on PC and Mac can unlock a HUGE range of functionality you just can&#8217;t get with Facebook’s standard apps.&nbsp; There&#8217;s a LOT of Facebook Live software options out there on both Mac and Windows.&nbsp; BeLive.tv, Wirecast, Open Broadcaster Software (OBS Studio), eCamm Live, Zoom, StreamYard… the list goes on! There’s so many great options, but each has their own unique strengths and weaknesses and cool live stream display features. The landscape is always changing with constant updates, but in this video we put all the major players head-to-head, comparing the pro&#8217;s and con&#8217;s to help you decide which is best for your Facebook Live streaming! Recommended Gear &amp; Resources Check out an up-to-date list of all the gear, software &amp; tools we use and recommend right now at Primal Video on our resources page here! Related Content Share this... Hit the button below and we'll send you this post for later, plus subscribe you to our awesome (free!) Primal Video Insider updates! Hit the button and we'll send you this post for later, plus subscribe you to our awesome (free!) Primal Video Insider updates! More from Primal Video... How to Build an Email List FAST (Automated List Building Strategies!) Learn how to build an email list FAST, completely organically! Step-by-step email list building tutorial, with tons of email marketing &#8230; Edit Video Faster: Editing Backwards This is one of those tips that if you don&#8217;t do it already, you&#8217;ll kick yourself for not thinking of &#8230; 3 Thumbnail Tips to Get More Views on YouTube! There are a few simple YouTube thumbnail tips that can help you easily get more views on YouTube. This is &#8230; Android and iPhone Camera Lens Filters for Better Smartphone Videos! Lens Filters are a key tool for any Pro Filmmaker or Photographer&#8230; Level up your Smartphone Videos with these Android &#8230; The Best Pro Waterproof Microphone is.. a GoPro!? Whether it&#8217;s the ocean or pool in any level of production.. It&#8217;s hard to get good quality, clear audio when &#8230; Best Wireless Microphone? RODE Wireless Go II Review! With so many wireless microphone systems on the market, it can be tricky to pick which one is right for &#8230; Insta360 Nano REVIEW: Best iPhone 360 Camera? Is the Insta360 Nano the BEST iPhone 360 camera? Find out in this Insta360 Nano review! Screenflow 6: What’s new? and should you upgrade from Screenflow 5? If you&#8217;re using ScreenFlow (or looking to make the leap), version 6 recently came out. The question is, should you &#8230; Best Webcam: Logitech C922 vs C920 The Logitech C920 has long been the top webcam, but with the C922 released — which is the best webcam &#8230; Become a Primal Video Insider to stay in the loop. © Primal Video 2023 Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookie Policy Affiliate Disclosure Earnings Disclaimer If you get my best Blue Steel impression now, just imagine what's waiting for you on the inside... We hate spam and promise to keep your email address safe.Check out our Privacy Policy for more info! If you get my best Blue Steel impression now, just imagine what's waiting for you on the inside... We hate spam and promise to keep your email address safe. Check out our Privacy Policy for more info! The easiest way to live stream and record A professional live streaming and recording studio in your browser. Interview guests, brand your broadcast, and much more. Stream to Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, and other platforms. Host a stable stream that is on-brand and smooth every time. Go live with guests from your browser in a few clicks. Works seamlessly with Facebook, YouTube, Linkedin, Twitter, Twitch, and more. Entrepreneur Create unforgettable moments with guests Broadcast with up to 10 people on screen and more backstage. Learn more about Guest Interviews Head of Partnerships at Teachable Multistream to all channels at once Stream to Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, Twitter, Twitch, and custom RTMP outputs. Learn more about Multistreaming Marketer Experience world-class audience interaction Make your audience feel special by featuring their comments on screen. Learn more about Audience Engagement Founder of Latin Times Media Brand your broadcasts. No design skills required. Make your show unique with your own logo, colors and overlays. Upload images, GIFs, and even videos. Learn more about Branding Gotta Be Handmade Studio quality recordings on any connection Sick of your Zoom and Skype recordings being ruined by a bad connection? With local recordings, a separate audio and video file is recorded on each user&#x27;s device. Even if someone has a weak connection, the recordings won&#x27;t be blurry or choppy. Learn more about Recordings Owner at Aw Yeah Comics Everyone has a message to share. Enterprise? Contact our sales team here. The easiest way to live stream and record Company Product Community StreamYard for Join us A Hopin Company Terms of Service Privacy Policy Help Center Trademarks English © 2023 StreamYard, Inc. The easiest way to live stream and record Company Product Community StreamYard for Join us A Hopin Company Terms of Service Privacy Policy Help Center Trademarks English © 2023 StreamYard, Inc. Watch Now vMix Live Production & Streaming Software Create professional live video productions using vMix. Live Stream to your favourite streaming providers including: IP Production with vMix vMix 25 Training Videos Learn how to use vMix Watch the vMix Fun Time Live Show! View our reference system build guides to buy or build a custom live production system or laptop. Live interview solution for up to 8 guests. Enhance your live sports productions with the power of vMix replay. Slow motion Instant Replay for up to 8 cameras. Live Social Media integration including Twitter, Facebook, Youtube Live, Twitch and IRC.&nbsp; Live Video Streaming Software for your PC vMix is a Software Video Mixer and Switcher that utilises the latest advances in computer hardware to provide live HD video mixing, a task previously only possible on expensive dedicated hardware mixers. vMix also functions as live streaming software that allows you to publish your live productions directly to the Internet!. vMix runs on the Windows 10 platform. vMix is a complete live video production software solution with features including LIVE mixing, switching, recording and LIVE streaming of SD, full HD and 4K video sources including cameras, video files, DVDs, images, Powerpoint and much much more. As vMix is a software solution, we've enabled users to build their own custom computers at a fraction of the cost of traditional live production equipment. We have created vMix Reference Systems that will allow you to build a vMix PC with specifications to match your production needs. We also have a list of available system builders that can create a system for you! Whether you are looking to produce big budget live concert productions, sporting events, Church services or small webcasts, then vMix is for you. Check out our Solutions page to see how vMix can fit into your workflow. For a full list of what is possible with vMix view our features page. Download a trial today and use a fully functional version of vMix for 60 days free of charge. WELCOME TO THE WORLD OF 4K LIVE STREAMING! vMix Latest News Using a drone in your live video production! If you&#8217;ve ever wanted aerial content in your live production, you&#8217;ll need to take a look at a drone. Drones allow you to capture video from the skies and provide ... Read more How to capture Tablet and Phone screen content? Whether it&#8217;s for gaming, lectures or training, being able to capture your tablet or phone screen is a valuable asset for live video. We thought we&#8217;d take a look through ... Read more Laptops for live streaming 2022 Welcome to &#8220;vMix recommends a laptop&#8221; 2022 edition! This year we&#8217;ve taken a bit of a left turn because we&#8217;ve found something that hits the sweet spot of functionality and ... Read more  Join an active community of vMix users in the official vMix Forums Copyright &copy; StudioCoast Pty Ltd. vMix is a registered trademark. NDI® is a registered trademark of NewTek, Inc. Livestream requires javascript to function properly. Please enable javascript in your browser or use a browser with javascript support. Enterprise Trial remaining Studio 6 Live Production Software Transform your computer into a professional live production control room with Livestream Studio. Input multiple feeds, add graphics, master audio, and stream in one robust, easy-to-use package. Studio 6 Please download on a non-mobile device Download The Most Versatile Live Switcher The Most Versatile Live Switcher Choose from a range of wireless cameras Connect any type of wired cameras Frame-accurate live switching and compositing, up to 4k Graphics, media, transitions and everything you need from a world-class production switcher. Broadcast quality video output Stream live to multiple destinations Either directly or via Livestream/Vimeo simulcast service for optimized bandwidth use. Paid subscription required for cloud simulcasting. Connect any type of wired camera Choose from a range of wireless cameras Frame-accurate live switching and compositing, up to 4K Graphics, media, transitions and everything you need from a world-class production switcher. Broadcast quality video output Stream live to multiple destinations Either directly or via Livestream/Vimeo simulcast service for optimized bandwidth use. Paid subscription required for cloud simulcasting. Studio 6 also includes Mevo Integration Connect one or multiple Mevo live-streaming cameras and control them entirely from Studio. Vimeo Integration Log into Studio with your Vimeo account, and enable cloud simulcasting with Vimeo Premium. Hardware Acceleration Use Studio on consumer-grade computers including the MacBook Pro with hardware acceleration. Simple Mode A new user experience mode designed for beginners or users with a simplified workflow. Powerful, Layered Broadcast Graphics Add live picture-in picture or media sources Apply in the mix or as a downstream overlay Built-in chroma key on any source Connect multiple local or external data sources Color Correction Adjust your camera’s color settings to get the best quality possible, and unify the look for multi-camera productions, by dialing in the RGB, brightness, saturation, contrast, and more. Live Interviews Using Only a Browser Invite anyone to join your live broadcast using a compatible browser and their webcam. Send participants a link generated from Studio and instantly see their live video over low latency WebRTC. Mix Multiple Mevo Cameras Bring multiple Mevos into Studio as remote cameras over Wi-Fi or Ethernet. Edit with virtual multi-camera using the Mevo mobile app and see the result in your Studio multi-view. Frame-accurate Media Playback Import any popular media format, loop clips, make playlists, add recordings as clips in the list, and export clips as .mp4 files for easy sharing. Scrub your video to find the ideal moment, trim your clip with in/out points, and set clips to autoplay with your transitions. Remote Control via a Browser UI Control Studio from any Chrome browser on the internet, with Studio 'WebControl', even on Android and Chromebook. Delegate graphics and stream management tasks to other team members in remote locations while you focus on cutting the show. Stream and Record in 4K End to end 4K multi-bitrate streaming with Livestream and YouTube. Virtual Camera Crop from 4K Create virtual cameras from any single camera input. Ideal for 4K inputs when streaming in 1080p or 720p. Eased camera moves, cuts, and presets supported. PTZ Camera Control Easily control Pan Tilt Zoom (PTZ) cameras that support VISCA or NDI PTZ protocols, all from within Studio. Multiple, Simultaneous ISO Recordings Record your program in broadcast quality with, or without, overlays. Edit clips and air highlighted replays to your viewers without stopping the recording. Record up to four simultaneous videos in broadcast quality MJPEG to an AVI or MP4 file. Hardware Acceleration Use Studio on your laptop! Studio requires significantly less processing power for computers with NVIDIA graphics cards that support NVENC, and/or QuickSync-enabled Intel processors. Transitions Use Studio on your laptop! Studio requires significantly less processing power for computers with NVIDIA graphics cards that support NVENC, and/or QuickSync-enabled Intel processors. Stinger Studio now offers stinger transitions that let you switch from one video source to another with short, slick animations. Dip to Color Switch video sources with a gradual fade into a color of your choice, then fading back to a new video source. SMPTE These are your standard transitions, including fade, edge wipes, box wipes, arrow wipes, and more. Multi-network Bonding Built-in RTMP Server Audio Mixer with Groups Audio Filters Live Ad Insertion Real-Time Format Conversion Tally Light Integration Dropbox Integration External Multi-view NDI Protocol Support Download Studio Studio software is free for all Livestream and Vimeo Premium subscribers (free trial available). Build your Own Studio Hardware Build your own Studio on Windows or Mac - just add a camera or capture device from Blackmagic Design or Magewell.  About Products Services Discover Sales & Support You are here:Influencer Marketing Hub » Influencer Marketing » Best Streaming Software for 2023 (Twitch &#038; Youtube) Best Streaming Software for 2023 (Twitch &#038; Youtube) Live video streaming has become increasingly popular this year and expecting to boom in 2023. With more people than ever stuck at home, thanks to the effects of COVID19 and its associated lockdowns, people have had to find ways to occupy their time. The most common type of video streaming is undoubtedly still gaming &ndash; Twitch is more popular now than ever now.&nbsp; But you can't just turn on your computer (or gaming system) and start streaming. The software isn't built into Windows, Mac, or any other operating systems. If you are serious about streaming, you first need to download suitable streaming software. This post analyzes what we believe to be the best streaming software available in 2023, both free versions and paid software with additional ease-of-use and features. Best Streaming Software for 2023 (Twitch and Youtube):  1. OWN3D Pro Source: own3d.pro OWN3D Pro is a plugin that expands on the open-source OBS Studio. OWN3D Pro makes it simple to give your stream a new look. It gives you access to more than 575 high-quality overlays and alerts, and a large number of Twitch panels, along with additional features, such as the ability to create a Twitch countdown and donation page and integrate a chatbox widget and a Twitch chatbot. You can also integrate to OWN3D Music, so you can add music to your stream without worrying about copyright violations. OWN3D offers both free and paid versions of OWN3D Pro. The free version offers five free overlays, panels and alerts, stream labels, and a countdown widget. The paid version provides the full feature set, and you can subscribe for one month, three months, or annually. OWN3D Pro works in conjunction with OBS Studio, which we cover separately below. You need first to install OBS Studio on your Windows laptop before you set up OWN3D Pro. Although some of OWN3D Pro's features will work on any streaming platform on which you use OBS Studio, it is designed for Twitch, and some features are Twitch-specific. It also uses Twitch terminology throughout. Not only can you use OWN3D Pro to add overlays to change the look of your streaming, but you can also customize them to suit your style.&nbsp; 2. OBS Studio Source: obsproject.com OBS Studio is open-source software you can use for video recording and live streaming. It is free to use but lacks some of the more advanced features found in paid versions of streaming software. As we have seen above, some software companies like OWN3D make extensions you can use to add to the core features of OBS Studio. If you are a "techie," you will love all the customizability of OBS Studio. Those who enjoy playing around with their computers will find more functionality than others but being open-source, OBS Source lacks the user support of most of the paid competition. It does come with a steep learning curve, but if you're willing to spend time on YouTube or elsewhere online, you should find considerable help from existing users. If you are prepared to devote time to learning its functionality, OBS Studio has more power than most of the other free software (although the free version of OWN3D Pro still has more, as it sits on top of OBS Studio). You will also find other plugins that people have developed to add to OBS Studio's core functionality. One advantage OBS Studio has over much of the other streaming software covered here is its versatility. You can use it on Windows, Linux, and Mac computers. You can also use it on multiple live streaming platforms, not just Twitch. 3. Streamlabs OBS Source: streamlabs.com Streamlabs was initially a live streaming tool that streamers used with other live streaming software. Streamlabs OBS now combines the Streamlabs tool with OBS Studio, giving a more advanced streaming program with a cleaner interface than the open-source tool. It also offers better user support. Like OBS Studio, Streamlabs OBS is free. Streamlabs OBS gives access to a range of gaming overlays. You can find more overlays, graphics, and streams, multistream to multiple platforms at once, and gain additional features by paying for Streamlabs Prime. Streamlabs OBS helps you live stream on Twitch, YouTube, or Facebook. The live streaming software is only available for Windows systems, although console users can still use Streamlabs to raise money from their viewers. 4. LightStream Source: golightstream.com You can use LightStream Studio to stream to Twitch, Facebook, YouTube, and custom RTMP. It provides cloud-powered broadcasting accessed through a web browser. You can also capture Xbox and PlayStation gameplay for streaming to Twitch without a capture card.&nbsp; You can select from the Gamer plan for $8, $12, or $16/month or the Creator plan for $25, $28, or $50 per month. The different prices shown for each plan indicate different maximum resolutions at which you choose to stream. There are also discounts if you opt to make an annual payment. Both plans offer various features, including streaming text, images, webcams, and video clips, 3rd party integrations for alerts and dynamic content, and unlimited streaming hours. The Creator plan adds in the ability to invite up to seven remote guests to your streams, RTMP sources, custom RTMP destinations, and PC screen share. 5. vMix Source: vmix.com vMix is high-end live production and streaming software for your PC. You can use it to stream to virtually any streaming provider, including Facebook Live, Twitch, and YouTube. It comes in five versions, from a free Basic pack (allowing four inputs, one overlay channel, and a maximum resolution of 768 x576) to a $1200 Pro version (allowing 1000 inputs, four overlay channels, a maximum resolution of 4096x2160, 4-camera instant replays, and many more features). vMix suggests you first download their free 60-day trial, test it, and then ask yourself questions regarding the exact features you use in practice. At this point, you can decide which plan most suits your needs. vMix considers its software's primary purpose is as a Software Video Mixer and Switcher that utilizes the latest advances in computer hardware to provide live HD video mixing, a task previously only possible on expensive dedicated hardware mixers. It also functions as live streaming software that allows you to publish your live productions directly to the Internet. Depending on the version you opt for, you can use vMix to live mix, switch, record, and live stream SD, full HD, and 4K video sources, including cameras, video files, DVDs, images, PowerPoint, and more. 6. XSplit Broadcaster Source: xsplit.com XSplit Broadcaster is live streaming and recording software for Windows. You can stream and record in 4K 60fps. You can use XSplit Broadcaster to stream on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitch. Indeed, you can even simultaneously broadcast to multiple stream services. The streaming software comes with a range of stream management features. It comes preloaded with a variety of transition styles, and you can add custom stinger transitions. You can edit scenes before pushing live with the Scene Preview Editor. XSplit allows you to script virtually any action or series of steps, and it supports custom scripts. 7. Gamecaster Source: gamecaster.com Gamecaster started as an XSplit brand of software but is now an identity of its own. As its name indicates, it places its focus squarely on gaming. You can use it to go live to Twitch, Facebook, or YouTube in 1080p. It takes advantage of the latest NVIDIA and AMD technology to stream lag-free. It comes loaded with hundreds of free overlays that include alerts, trains, goals, and widgets. These include professionally animated overlays. Gamecaster's Scene Editor makes creating complex alerts and widgets simple. Gamecaster includes multiple integrations, including elgato, Spotify, Streamlabs, and ReStream.&nbsp; 8. Nvidia ShadowPlay Source: nvidia.com Nvidia ShadowPlay targets gamers and comes bundled with many Nvidia GeForce graphics cards. It enables you to record and share high-quality gameplay videos, screenshots, and livestreams. You can use it to broadcast to Facebook Live, Twitch, or YouTube Live. It does, however, lack some of the features available in more specialist streaming software and is probably more used by gamers wanting to share their best moments on their social networks. It does, however, support camera and custom graphic overlays to better personalize your livestream.&nbsp;&nbsp; ShadowPlay's DVR-style Instant Replay mode allows you to hit a hotkey to save the last 30 seconds of gameplay to your hard drive or share to YouTube or Facebook. You can manually record gameplay videos for as long as you want. ShadowPlay is hardware accelerated, so you can leave it running in the background. You can also create up to a 15-second GIF from your favorite ShadowPlay video, add text,&nbsp; and upload it to Google, Facebook, or Weibo.&nbsp; 9. Wirecast Source: telestream.net Wirecast offers two paid versions of live streaming software: Wirecast Studio and Wirecast Pro. Wirecast clearly targets more professional streamers than those who use free software. Indeed, Wirecast's tagline is "Stream like a pro." You can stream from unlimited sources: cameras, microphones, webcams, IP cams, and more. You can also capture a variety of IP sources or anything on your computer screen or other computers. A built-in web-browser can display live web pages. It supports multiple professional audio sources, and you can even mix up to 8 independent audio tracks and add FX and processing. It comes with over 100 built-in graphics and titles. You can access over 500,000 unique media assets directly in Wirecast, including videos, music, lower thirds, backgrounds, and more. If you're into broadcasting sports, Wirecast includes replay, scoreboards, clocks, and timers.&nbsp; You can use Wirecast to stream to Facebook Live, Twitter, YouTube, Vimeo Live, or any destination via RTMP, more than one at a time if you desire. Wirecast Pro has all Wirecast Studio features plus expanded inputs and audio capabilities, 7 simultaneous Wirecast Rendezvous guests, 3D virtual sets, PTZ camera control, and more. Frequently Asked Questions What is the best stream software? What is the best streaming software for 2023?1. OWN3D Pro2. OBS Studio3. Streamlabs OBS4. LightStream5. vMix6. XSplit Broadcaster7. Gamecaster8. Nvidia ShadowPlay9. Wirecast What streaming software do most streamers use? These are the best and most powerful streaming software options that most streamers use:1. OWN3D Pro2. OBS Studio3. Streamlabs OBS4. LightStream5. vMix6. XSplit Broadcaster7. Gamecaster8. Nvidia ShadowPlay9. Wirecast What streaming software should I use 2023? The best streaming software is Streamlabs OBS. Many people will use Streamlabs OBS because it is customizable and similar to OBS Studio, and users can make the switch. Newer streamers will usually use SLOBS because it&rsquo;s easier to learn and navigate. Is OBS good for low end PC? If you cannot afford a powerful streaming setup, don&rsquo;t worry. Even with a low end PC, you can still use OBS and get a lot of bang for your buck. Is there anything better than OBS? There are multiple alternatives to OBS. One good alternative to OBS is Bandicam, a lightweight screen recorder for WIndows machines. This option is a favorite for many gamers and it allows for the recording of gameplay at 144FFPS in resolution up to 4K. SUGGESTED What is the Difference Between a Creator and an Influencer? And... What’s the difference between a creator and an influencer? Aren’t they all the... A Quick Guide to Using Instagram Reels Ads Like a Boss Not everything that happened in 2020 was bad. Among all the restrictions, brands and... Create Better Reels Faster with Instagram Reels Templates With Instagram pushing Reels on the platform, everyone’s creating them to gain more... When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works. The best free streaming software in 2023: stream games like the pros Find the best free streaming software for your gaming live-stream The best free streaming software is great for content creators just starting out or when you're working to a budget. They can help set you apart from the competition with pro-quality tools from custom logos to audio editors and high-res video streams.&nbsp; But it&rsquo;s not easy to know which streaming software is best for you. The streaming market is growing massively, which means there are some great choices out there - all promising easier access, better performance, and faster setup times.&nbsp; So, when you&rsquo;re choosing the best free software for streaming, there are a few key factors to consider.&nbsp; Focus on what you&rsquo;re going to stream. A lot of streaming software (including screen recorders and free screen recorders) are tailor-made for gamers. But if you&rsquo;re not planning on making a game-stream, there are still options.&nbsp; Hardware-wise, think about which devices and operating systems you need to stream from and choice of input sources.&nbsp; Make sure you check out supported games on your preferred tool - some of the best streaming apps let you record anything, while others make you choose from a list.&nbsp; We&rsquo;ve reviewed the best free streaming software tools - seeing how accessible they are, how they perform, and making sure they&rsquo;re genuinely free for users. No hidden charges or secret subscriptions.&nbsp; The best free streaming software 2023 Why you can trust TechRadar Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out more about how we test.  1. OBS Studio Specifications Reasons to buy Reasons to avoid OBS Studio is a free open source streaming application that works on Windows, Macs and Linux. It brings many tools to the table, to help you create a great experience for your viewers, whether you broadcast live or record for later publishing. It&rsquo;s designed around scenes which you populate with various input sources (such as a microphone, webcam, watermarks, images, videos, etc). You can easily switch from one scene to the other with ease, and even apply transitions automatically when doing so. There&rsquo;s a lot of great flexibility, but it isn&rsquo;t the most user friendly piece of software. In an earlier review, we hailed it as "the most powerful free screen recorder and streaming tool available for gamers, with everything you need to achieve professional results. It might take a little while to familiarize yourself with its interface, but the effort will pay off." And not much has altered since to change our minds. When we recently returned to OBS Studio, we still felt it was a great streaming tool, but hampered by glitches and an interface that&rsquo;s overwhelming to newcomers. On the other hand, we thought it &ldquo;possesses many tools to help you create great content.&rdquo;&nbsp; At least OBS Studio is free, making it worth consideration when setting up your streaming studio. You may well find that you love what you can do with it. Read our full OBS Studio review&nbsp;  2. Streamlabs OBS Specifications Reasons to buy Reasons to avoid Streamlabs OBS is one of the top OBS Studio alternatives, since it's built the same foundation as the best free streaming software itself. Only, it comes with a more user-friendly mask over the still-powerful tool.&nbsp; Like its more advanced counterpart, the program is completely free and open-source. That means plenty of community contributions, but no real support.&nbsp; Streamlabs offers claims to offer improved performance via automatic optimization, though the difference in our tests was negligible. With a cleaner interface than OBS Studio, Streamlabs is a good choice for beginners and first-time streamers. However, if you're already happy using OBS Studio, there's little advantage in switching.&nbsp; As the streaming tool continues to evolve, it'll be interesting to see how it diverges further from OBS Studio in the future. But for the moment there's little difference between the two.  3. Nvidia Shadowplay Specifications Reasons to buy Reasons to avoid If you just want to play games, Nvidia Shadowplay is one of the best free streaming software tools for you.&nbsp; You may have already come across it, since it's bundled with GeForce graphics cards. And it has a major advantage over most streaming software: it encodes in the GPU rather than the CPU, meaning it has negligible impact on performance,&nbsp; However, Shadowplay far less flexible than OBS Studio. There are no overlays or multi-sources scenes &ndash;&nbsp;just the game itself.&nbsp; That makes it perfect for those only streaming gameplay - it certainly gets the job done. If you want to create something more sophisticated then you'll be better off with OBS Studio &ndash;&nbsp;particularly since you can set the top streaming app to use Nvidia's NVENC encoding. Shadowplay's video recording and screengrab tools are excellent, but streaming isn't its strongest suit.  4. Xsplit Gamecaster Specifications Reasons to buy Reasons to avoid Xsplit Gamecaster isn't like other free streaming software. It's a free, cut-down version of the premium Xsplit Broadcaster.&nbsp; And that gives Gamecaster a sleeker look, while benefitting from premium support online. As a trade-off, several features are locked behind a paywall. So, it's good free streaming software for basic streams, but that 'free' carries some limitations. Unlike Xsplit's paid-for alternative, Gamecaster offers a more streamlined interface. It supports streaming to Twitch, Mixer, YouTube and Facebook, and we found it incredibly easy to use. Just start your game and hit a keyboard shortcut to bring up the overlay and begin streaming. The biggest drawback is that streams at 720p or higher will carry an Xsplit watermark. Not ideal if you want your stream to look professional.&nbsp; Despite being found in many of the best free streaming software programs, you'll have to pay for more advanced tools, like chromakeying (green screen), in-game Twitch chat, console support via a capture card, and custom logos.&nbsp; Commercial use also requires a separate license. How to choose the best free streaming software for you When deciding which free streaming software is best for you, start with what you&rsquo;re going to stream. Streaming games is massively popular, so many of the top streaming apps, like OBS Studio, Xsplit Gamecaster, and Nvidia Shadowplay, are centered around gamers.&nbsp; Next, choose what level of production you want. Shadowplay is great for just getting your gamestream up and running, but lacks a lot of other features. While OBS Studio offers professional results, but comes with a steeper learning curve. If you want flashy, eye-catching streams, you&rsquo;ll swiftly outgrow more basic streaming software. Be honest about your experience level. If you&rsquo;ve never tried free streaming software before, first try a simple tool like Streamlabs OBS. It offers a good entry into streaming and covers the basics, letting you master more advanced tools.&nbsp; Finally, be subjective. Select the streaming app that feels right for you - the one that matches your own unique, creative flow.&nbsp; How we test the best free streaming software Just like our readers, we want to know which streaming software is best - so we put each one through its paces, judged against the same criteria that really matters to users. Free should mean free - no hidden costs or credit card details required. It&rsquo;s the first factor we review. All of the best free streaming software in our round-up won&rsquo;t cost a penny.&nbsp; The best free streaming software should be easy to use. The interface should be clean, intuitive, simple to navigate. Even more advanced streaming apps, like OBS Studio, should be accessible and clear how to master the tool.&nbsp; Performance matters, and we want to see streaming tools that work well across a range of devices, without stuttering or otherwise interfering with the capture.&nbsp; User intent is important. Streaming tools are built for lots of different audiences and uses, and we check to see how well it meets the expectations and needs of its target market. For example, the Streamlabs OBS streaming software is great for beginners, but unfit for high-end, professional productions. But both are excellent in their own way.&nbsp; TechRadar Newsletter Sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals! Daryl had been freelancing for 3 years before joining TechRadar, now reporting on everything software-related. In his spare time he's written a book, 'The Making of Tomb Raider', alongside podcasting and usually found playing games old and new on his PC and MacBook Pro. If you have a story about an updated app, one that's about to launch, or just anything Software-related, drop him a line. Other versions of this page are available with specific content for the following regions: TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab). &copy;Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,New York,NY 10036. Create a YouTube live stream with an encoder There are three ways to stream on YouTube: use a webcam, your mobile device or an encoder (streaming software or a hardware encoder). Using an encoder lets you: The steps below will help you get started with your first live stream. 1. Enable live streaming Enabling a live stream for the first time may take up to 24 hours. Once enabled, your stream can go live instantly. Learn how to start live streaming. 2. Install an encoder An encoder converts your video into a digital format to stream on YouTube. Some encoders are software apps on your computer, while others are standalone hardware. Watch this video to learn more about why you should use an encoder and how they work. Encoder Live Streaming: Basics on How to Set Up &amp; Use an Encoder YouTube Live verified encoders Here's a list of YouTube Live verified encoders. None of these products are made by YouTube. Make sure that you evaluate the products and decide which option makes the most sense for you or your business. Software encoders AWS Elemental MediaLive AWS Elemental MediaLive is a broadcast-grade live video processing service, supporting live streaming all the way up to 4Kp60 HEVC. &nbsp;  Elgato Game Capture Software Windows, Mac Record and stream your Xbox, PlayStation or Wii U gameplay. &nbsp;  Gamecaster Windows (no charge version available) The easiest way to stream and record your greatest gaming moments at the click of a button. Perfect for sharing your gameplay. &nbsp;  Melon live streaming app Best live streaming app for professional-quality live streams from your browser. Invite guests with ease. Packed with features, tons of customisation options, donations and no downloads needed. Open Broadcaster Software Open-source software for video recording and live streaming at no charge. &nbsp;  Restream The leading live streaming broadcasting studio for creators and businesses. Stream live to 30+ platforms simultaneously from our cloud studio. Invite guests, add overlays, play videos and professionalise your stream – at no charge, and it's easy to use. &nbsp;  Stage TEN Easily produce and distribute broadcast quality live streams. &nbsp;You can invite guests from anywhere, drag and drop media and graphics, add live commerce to your streams, interact with audiences and earn revenue.  &nbsp; Streamlabs Windows, iOS, Android Streamlabs is the leading broadcast software for streamers. It's free of charge, open source and&nbsp;packed with powerful features to help you grow, get to know and monetise. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Wirecast Windows, Mac Easy-to-use, award-winning live streaming and production software. Add cameras, live screenshots, titles, graphics and more at the click of a button. Stream directly to YouTube or any RTMP destination. Works with the YouTube API, so you can manage, create and schedule or stream your live channel without leaving the app. &nbsp;  XSplit Broadcaster Windows (no charge version available.) Revolutionary audio/video-mixing app that allows you to create professional live broadcasts and video recordings. Hardware encoders AirServer Windows, Mac Mirror your mobile device or computer to YouTube.  AWS Elemental Live AWS Elemental Live is an on-premises video encoder that processes live video for broadcast and streaming to any device. &nbsp;  Epiphan Pearl-2 The Pearl-2 is a video switcher, recorder, streamer, splitter and scaler all in one. This software offers six video inputs and four for XLR professional audio, 4K streaming and recording, NDI support, chroma keying, and much more. Pearl-2 brings the pro features and processing power required for the most demanding live streams.  LiveU Solo Best-in-class, plug-and-play video encoder offering one-touch, wireless live streaming directly from your camera/switcher to YouTube and other online destinations. Reliably stream from anywhere leveraging the same LRT™ bonding technology used by major broadcasters. &nbsp;  Nvidia NVIDIA GPUs contain a hardware-based encoder (NVENC) which provides fully accelerated hardware-based video encoding, enabling higher quality live streaming and better game performance without the need to utilise your CPU. &nbsp;  SlingStudio The industry's first portable, wireless multi-camera broadcasting platform. Monitor, record, switch, edit and stream live HD-quality video wirelessly to YouTube. &nbsp;  Teradek VidiU Go Stream in broadcast quality on the go from any camera, switcher or video source. Compact and portable, the Vidiu Go supports full 1080p60 SDI and HDMI workflows for the most discerning user. Mobile encoders AirServer Windows, Mac Mirror your mobile device to YouTube. &nbsp;  Streamlabs Windows, iOS, Android Built on OBS, and combines Streamlabs alerts, shortcuts, tipping, face masks and thousands of free of charge themes and overlays. &nbsp; &nbsp;  Wirecast Go iOS Free of charge download from iOS App Store. Easily produce professional live broadcasts from your iPhone and stream them to YouTube. Switch shots, add photos, graphics and more on up to three layers at a time for powerful mobile production. Read YouTube comments and chat in real time and interact with your audience. Schedule, create and manage your YouTube live streams directly inside the app. Upgrade from free of charge version to stream to any RTMP destination. 3. Connect your hardware If you're using hardware, like a webcam, a microphone or a headset, connect it and make sure that it's set up with your encoder. Depending on your stream, you may use different hardware. Here are some typical examples: Gaming and casual live streams Many streamers use an external microphone, webcam and headphones. Gamers may also use other tools like a green screen. Professional live streams Advanced stream setups can include more than one microphone,&nbsp;camera, mixer and hardware encoder. 4. Connect your encoder and go live To start streaming, enter your YouTube Live server URL and stream key into your encoder. If you have audio and video hardware, set it up with your encoder, also known as streaming software.  Start live streaming now &nbsp;First, create a&nbsp;stream Next, connect your stream to your encoder, then go live Schedule a live stream Scheduling a stream lets you promote your stream. Viewers can get reminders on upcoming streams, you can share the URL on social media and more. Schedule a stream Tip: Get your audience excited about your upcoming live stream by showing a trailer. Learn more. When it's time to start your stream... Connect your stream to your encoder, then go live. Live stream on YouTube 10 Best Live Streaming Software for YouTube, Facebook &#038; Twitter in 2023 Social media integration with live streaming software and open broadcaster software has boosted the reach of high-quality video content to a more global audience. Not just that! Live streaming tool helps customize your broadcast too. You can use YouTube live streaming software and as many cameras as required and broadcast a wider background. An Introduction to Live Streaming Software Live video streaming software is a popular broadcast tool in the digital world. Professional video content creators and hobbyists alike use live video software to reach out to the target audience and fellow supporters by streaming live all types of content. Live video streaming tool is used by businesses and event organizers for HD video recording, capturing, and broadcasting. While the audience popularly uses live streaming platforms for live sharing, commenting, interacting and tagging. By using a software for streaming their content, influencers can connect and interact with their dedicated fan following. What DoesLive Streaming Software Do? Best live streaming apps is the new fad and everybody wants a piece of the cake. Afterall, live video software is an awesome way to connect with people and has tremendous potential from business point of view. Before you also make your mind to ‘go live’, here’s a 101 on what exactly a YouTube streaming software do? How the Encoder Works in Best Streaming Software? In a live video streaming software, Encoders help convert videos into different digital formats to stream them live. In more technical terms, these encoders within paid and free live streaming software transform video content into streamable digital content. This transformation is carried on by codecs support that in turn uses compression and decompression techniques. These tools can operate easily on any computing device.&nbsp; Now, you may want to know the difference between software and hardware encoders present in broadcaster software and video streaming software. While we discussed about software encoders above, which are relatively cheap, hardware encoders are dedicated processors depending on designed algorithms for encoding video data content into streamable forms. Hardware encoders present in live streaming and open broadcaster software are used by professional video broadcasters and makers. Best YouTube Live Streaming and Open Broadcaster Software for Windows PC &amp; Mac Broadcast all video and audio content live to an audience with best streaming solutions and streaming video software mentioned below. These live encoding tools let the video creators reach large group of audiences around the world and interact with them live. Here are some of the best YouTube live streaming software. Wirecast Play Live Streaming Software (Windows &amp; Mac OS) Wirecast&#8217;s live YouTube streaming software can be used at a place of your choice and comfort for sharing videos live with everyone. With streaming support offered by this best live streaming software, you can create webcasts with this streaming software and attach sliding transitions in between different feeds. Other highlights of this Facebook and YouTube live streaming software are flash streaming support, auto connect technicality and security with Wirecast’s robust encoding. This free streaming software offers several advanced audio and video controls. Wirecast Best Streaming Software Play Features: BestLive streaming app for: iOS Freeversion of live broadcast software: Available Premiumversion of Wirecast, the best streaming software for YouTube: Available with authorized dealers,distributors and resellers. OBS Studio Live Streaming Software (MacOS, Windows &amp; Linux) Finish all your video recordings in high quality and stream it live with this video streaming tool for YouTube. Add audio mixes through this YouTube live streaming software to captured videos and configure the same by altering their properties of this live video software. In this open broadcaster software, you can add or duplicate new sources to captured video files. End users can take advantage of hot keys by using this software for streaming for every step involved in video capturing processes such as muting, stopping, restarting, starting, streaming as well as recording. Features of OBS Studio live video software: Live streaming app for: Appnot available. You can download OBS Studio YouTube live streaming software for Linux,macOS 10.13+ and&nbsp;Windows. Free version of OBS YouTube Streaming Software: Available&nbsp; Premium version of OBS, the best software for live streaming on facebook: Free and open source live streaming software. Streamlabs Open Source Live Streaming Software (Mac OS, Windows) Fulfill all your dreams of livestreaming on YouTube, Facebook and other social media platforms with Streamlabsvideo streaming software. The free live streaming software is used fordistributing content over multiple social media platforms aside from providingopen broadcaster services. Thus, you can depend on this video streamingsoftware for managing onscreen visuals, chats and all interactions with theviewers.&nbsp; Streamlabs Best Live Streaming Software Features: One of the Best Live streaming app for: OBS app store provides access to 40 plus apps to Prime subscribers. Free version of Streamlabs Best Streaming Software: It’s a free and open source YouTube broadcast software.&nbsp; Premium version of Streamlabs Live Video Streaming Software: Prime premium toolkit is available at a monthly price of ₹915.&nbsp; Lightstream Live Broadcast Software What makesLightstream one of the best streaming software for YouTube is that it is acloud based video broadcast software and you can go live through your browseronly. This video broadcast software lets you start live streaming in a matterof minutes. Lightstream YouTube live streaming software makes use of a drag anddrop interface and offers quality integration with third party applications foradvanced features such as mid stream notifications and option of screensharing. Features of Lightstream Software for Streaming Best Live Streaming App for: Web based Free Trial of YouTube Streaming Software: Free trial for 1 week. Premium version of Lightstream, the best live streaming software: Lightstream best streaming software costs ₹1468.88 per month. Top Facebook Live Streaming &amp; OpenBroadcaster Software XSplit Live Steaming Software (Windows) Multi-streaming, local streaming or adding additional scenes to the content captured, all can be done effectively with XSplit video streaming software. This open broadcaster software is one of the best for pursuing video streaming recordings and displaying those on multiple screens through the projector mode. XSplit streaming video software is also considered to be the best Facebook live streaming software because you can use white boarding and annotation tools for illustrations, live events and live analysis.&nbsp; XSplit Live Video Software Features: Live streaming app for: Notavailable Free trial of Live Broadcast Software: No Premium plan of Best Streaming Software for YouTube: Get three-month license at around ₹1880, which includes all apps. vMix Live Streaming Software for PC (Windows) vMix Facebook live streaming software, which integrates well with social media tools, is used for live streaming in high definition mode and live video/audio mixing. You can use this live video streaming software for Facebook and other social media platforms and stream live HD, SD, DVDs, PowerPoint, images and video files. Hence it is also categorised among best YouTube live streaming software. vMix Software for Streaming Features (Trial Plan): Key features of basic and advanced paid plans of vMix live video software: Premium paid plan features of vMix YouTube Streaming Software: Live streaming app for: Appnot available. You can get this live video streaming software for Windows7/8/10 Free version of best software for live streaming on facebook: Trial version for sixty days Premium version of vMix best live streaming software: It’s a free live streaming software with limited features. The Pro plan comes around ₹91512 and supports three camera/NDI inputs. VidBlasterX Video Streaming Software VidBlasterXis one of the best software for live streaming on Facebook because it makes useof the CPU&#8217;s memory and does not depend on the GPU. This means that you canstream even on cloud environments such as Microsoft Azure and Amazon AWS. Thelive video streaming software has several in-built video effects such as chromakey feature for effective color correction and overlays. VidBlaster Streaming Video Features Best Live Streaming Apps for: Windows Free version of VidBlaster X Software forStreaming: Not Available Premium version of VidBlaster X live videosoftware: The premium version of this video broadcast software costs&nbsp; ₹77,199.43 yearly. Best Live Streaming Software forTwitter Periscope Live Streaming Software (iOS &amp; Android) Video developers use Periscope open broadcaster software for multiple purposes such as hardware encoding, professional cameras and streaming. One critical advantage of using this streaming software is that you can add your own comments to the broadcasts aside from streaming HD quality live videos that can be later on viewed as high quality video playbacks by the target group.&nbsp; Features of Periscope Live Streaming Tool for Twitter: Live streaming app for: Web, iOS and Android Free version of video streaming software: Available Premium version of Periscope streaming video software: Available with monthly subscriptions plans. YouNow Live Streaming Software (iPhone &amp; Android) Showcase your creative talent with YouNow live streaming tool for Twitter. You can broadcast your content live with this open broadcaster software and engage in real time chatting with the audience quite fast with these free streaming software. Even businesses such as small enterprises and startups deploy this live video software for advertising their products and services. YouNow best streaming software for YouTube is being used widely for updating regular viewers of the status of the content shared, checking in for new updates and of course, connecting live with the audience. Features of YouNow Live Broadcast Software: Live streaming app for:Android, iPhone, Windows and web app Free version of YouNow video broadcast software: Available Premium version of YouNow YouTube live streaming software &nbsp;: It’s free live streaming software. Nvidia Shadowplay NvidiaShadowplay software for streaming is the perfect solution for gamers looking toshowcase their skills on livestream. The live video software has an instantreplay feature using which you can store 30 second long videos of your game andshare them across social media channels. Nvidia YouTube streaming software ishardware accelerated which means that you can easily run the software in thebackground while you focus on playing the game in the foreground. Nvidia Shadowplay Best Live Streaming SoftwareFeatures Best Live Streaming app for: Windows 7,8, 8.1 and 10 Free version of Nvidia live video streaming software: Available Premium version of Nvidia video streaming software: It is a free streaming software. &nbsp; FAQs HLS is a live streaming protocol that follows a step by step live streaming process. The steps include capturing the content through devices such as microphone, camera and sending it to an encoder.The encoder further sends the content to a video hosting application through RTMP (real time messaging protocol). RTMP uses audio and video codecs for sending final video or audio content to the viewer. Some of the best free live streaming software for YouTube are Twitch, YouTube Live, Nvidia ShadowPlay and 1AvStreamer. Some of the best video streaming software for PC are VidBlasterX, FFmpeg, Camaleon Live and Vimeo LiveStream. The list below highlights the available best live streaming video software for Facebook are Restream, Boro, Crowdcast, Panopto, JW Player and Ecamm Live. Was this article helpful? Would you like to get latest offers on software? Thank you for your feedback! Soon we will provide you best offers Post navigation Related Posts Can&#8217;t Keep Calm Because You are An Entrepreneur? Stress Relief Apps Can Help Why Is Leadership Coaching Important for Entrepreneurs 15 Free Music Download Sites to Download Songs Legally Upselling and Cross Selling Strategies: Tips to Improve Your Revenue Why Migrate from CentOS Linux to Red Hat Enterprise Linux(RHEL)?  Get Free Advice from Our Software Experts Trending Products TallyPrime 4.4 Starting Price: ₹ 21240 Keka HRMS 4.9 Starting Price: ₹ 8259/Month EasyGST 5.0 Starting Price: ₹ 3422/Year Salesforce CRM 4.4 Starting Price: ₹ 297360/User/Year EasyOffice 5.0 Starting Price: ₹ 2950/Year RPS Jewel Pro 4.7 Starting Price: ₹ 24999/Quantity Whatso 4.6 Starting Price: ₹ 2949/Year E_kshitiz 4.6 Starting Price: ₹ 29500 Hospilogix 0.0 Starting Price: ₹ 590000/Quantity Solid Performers CRM 5.0 Starting Price: ₹ 7669/User/Month Spine HRMS 4.4 Price On Request Microsoft Office 365 Business Basic 4.8 Starting Price: ₹ 153/Month PeoplesHR Turbo 4.9 Starting Price: ₹ 40/Employee/Month Deskera All in One 4.8 Price On Request AnyDesk 4.5 Starting Price: ₹ 16638/Year Vyapar Billing Software 4.7 Starting Price: ₹ 724/Year Singularity complete 5.0 Price On Request GoToAssist 4.6 Price On Request Filmora X 4.6 Starting Price: ₹ 6500/Lifetime Trending Posts View all Stock Trading 10 Best Virtual Trading Apps: Start Virtual Trading Without Real Money By Mayank DixitDecember 4, 2020 Video Editing 15 Best Instagram Video Editing Apps for PC &#038; Mobile By Ayushee SharmaApril 20, 2022 IVR &amp; Cloud Telephony 12 Best Hidden Call Recorder Apps for Android &#038; iPhone By Somya GuptaJuly 12, 2021 Stock Trading 12 Best Forex Brokers in India 2023 | RBI Approved and SEBI Regulated By Mayank DixitDecember 16, 2020 Free and Open Source 21 Best Free Online Typing Software and App in 2022 By Kalpana AryaOctober 5, 2019 Bulk SMS Top 14 Free Bulk SMS Apps for Marketing By Anurag VatsOctober 16, 2019 Free and Open Source 10 Best Open Source and Free Library Management Software By Riya BasuNovember 12, 2019 Free and Open Source 24 Top Free Bulk WhatsApp Sender Tools Online for Marketing By Anurag VatsNovember 15, 2019 Stock Trading 19 Best Technical Analysis Software for Stock Trading in India 2023 By Kalpana AryaFebruary 25, 2020 Articles Top 28 Gaming Websites for PC &#038; Android &#8211; Download Free Games Online [Updated &#8211; 2023] By Somya GuptaMay 5, 2020 Stock Trading 15 Best Stock Screeners in India for Day Trading 2023 By Ayushee SharmaJune 7, 2021 Recommended Products GoToMeeting By GoTo 4.1 BlueJeans Events By Blue Jeans 0.0 GlobalMeet By PGI 0.0 Zoom Meetings By Zoom Video 4.4 GoBrunch By GoBrunch 0.0 Recommended Products Hubilo 0.0 Periscope 0.0 JW Player 0.0 Livestorm 0.0 Vimeo Pro 0.0 Ant Media Server 0.0 OBS Studio 0.0 Find Best Software & IT Solutions to Grow Your Business Online. 600+ Software Category & 5500+ Software Vendors © 2016 - 2023 Techjockey Company Quick Links Stay in touch Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram © 2016 - 2023 Techjockey Streaming, Silence Detection and Logging all in one Simple Package Radio streaming software has never been so feature packed. LiveStream takes audio streaming software to the next level and is considered by users to be the best live streaming software there is. Whilst LiveStream shares the same product name and purpose as the previous two LiveStreams, that’s all it shares. It’s a completely new product and can be used with or without PlayoutONE. You can setup as many encoders as you want, all streaming to different servers and at different rates with different codecs from MP3, AAC and AAC+ or OPUS and OGG. Silence Detection LiveStream has built in silence detection which has the ability to email you and also play an emergency audio file on loop directly into the broadcast stream. You can also optionally send this emergency file to a physical sound device, which isn&#8217;t part of the streams audio chain, at the same time, which makes it ideal for FM broadcasts as you don&#8217;t have to have additional equipment to serve the audio chain when silence is detected. VST and DSP Processing You can include VST&#8217;s and DSP&#8217;s like Stereotool and you can stack them as well, so one will feed its output into another, for further processing if you require it. Audio Interfaces Supported inputs are DirectSound, WASAPI and ASIO and it has Input and Output capture. Now Playing Information and Meta For Meta data like now playing information you can set a billboard file to be read every time it’s updated, similar to old LiveStream – but with this LiveStream you can also start a local meta capture server, so other applications can send a simple http string which LiveStream will pick up and push out to your live encoders. Logging Output If you currently have a few applications, one to stream, a second to detect silence and manage that and a third to log your output – well you can now do away with the third one too, because LiveStream now logs your output into your selected format. Multiple streaming, multiple codecs, silence detection, email notifications, emergency audio backup file and multiple DSPs all in one neat application and all for just £74.99 – and you can have this today. You can use LiveStream, with one encoder and no features, free. Enabling features or having more than one encoder will put out a tone every 30 seconds, but it gives you a chance to trial LiveStream and really see the power it gives you. LiveStream Product tour Dave walks you through the many features of LiveStream. i.fb-icon-element.fontawesome-icon.fb-icon-element-1{color:#fff}i.fb-icon-element.fontawesome-icon.fb-icon-element-1:hover{color:#fff}Watch the video If you would like some more information on LiveStream then please fill in this form and please put in as much detail as you can so we can answer any queries accurately and quickly. Your Privacy Your email address does not get shared with any third parties and we do not send out marketing spam. Your email will be used to respond to you and that is all. Title Information Support Getting PlayoutONE Opportunities Account Address AiirThe Beacon CentreCafferata WayNewarkNottinghamshireNG24 2TN Email: hello@aiir.com Phone Update Your Browser New to SaaSworthy? Sign Up Already Registered? Sign In Live Stream Software In such a short span, live streaming has amassed a lot of popularity, with both individuals and companies using the medium. Live streaming software makes the process of sharing a live feed easier so that one can focus on what they want to promote to live audience rather than trying to understand technical aspects. Such software ensures that the recorded video is transcoded and, to be shared on the internet live. It allows you the options to mix/add multiple inputs such as various camera angles or game streaming along with webcam input, and finally share it on the live streaming platform. Many social media sites also support live streaming nowadays, but to do that, you&#39;ll need to rely on live streaming software. Webinar software can serve some of the functionality of live streaming; however, live stream software is more robust and lets your broadcast to millions of people simultaneously rather than a webinar, which aims at a smaller group. Depending upon the tool you opt for, you can do unlimited live streaming too, while there are open source live streaming software that may not have such capabilities. Restream Restream pricing: Starts at $16.0. Offers Free-forever and Custom plan. What is Restream and how does it work? Restream is a professional live streaming software designed to enhance one’s visibility online. Restream helps you engage with your social media audience directly from your browser to reduce the complexities of professional live broadcasting. Right from customizing to engaging your audience in real-time, Restream is a holistic solution to drive maximum engagement to your live streams. Our strong community of 5M streamers can use Restream to go live on 30+ platforms simultaneously, including Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and LinkedIn. show more Streann Studio Streann Studio pricing: Lifetime deal starts at $59 What is Streann Studio and how does it work? Show and tell a new product or idea. Host your own show and customize the experience with our easy to use studio. Sharing is caring, give classes, seminars, presentations. Also perfect for Esports and sports live streaming commentary.Stream your content to multiple social media. Your company news internal or external communication. Use the power of social media to amplify your message. show more Crowdcast Crowdcast pricing: Starts at $20.0. What is Crowdcast and how does it work? Crowdcast is a leading live streaming platform that enables creators to enhance their audience reach and engagement levels in virtual events. Users can grow their community by integrating interviews, Q&amp;As, webinars, conferences, and more. The software offers an easy configuration that enables users to start their events in seconds with a single URL and zero download requirements. Through interactive Q&amp;As, polls, and chats, users can create real conversations. They can also invite their attendees on multiple platforms such as Periscope, Facebook Live, and YouTube Live, by connecting through no-delay HD streaming. Besides, the software offers a variety of tools to creators or performers that they need to grow their business and generate potential leads. Crowdcast also enables users to communicate with their clients via in-app emails. The software features seamless integration with more than 500 tools and applications through Zapier, which is of great use. show more Be.Live Be.Live pricing: Starts at $24.99. Offers Free-forever plan. What is Be.Live and how does it work? Be.Live is a live video conferencing and streaming application. The software has all such features that a firm on an individual seeks from any video streaming platform. It requires zero setup to start and all the invitees can join within a click. The host can invite up to 10 guests out of which four can be shown on the live screen. The permanent joining link is also displayed right on the screen so that any interested person can submit a request to join the live session. One can promote his brand using logos and overlays during the sessions. Viewers comments are also displayed in real-time on the screen so that the guests can reply to them instantly. All the video sessions can be streamed live on Facebook or YouTube and saved as well into good quality video formats. Also, unlike other streaming applications that bring complications more than features, Be.Live has a neat and easy-to-use interface. All buttons to access the primary features are available right on the live screen. Simple, yet feature-rich, Be.Live is a popular video streaming solution in the market. show more Vimeo Livestream Vimeo Livestream pricing: Starts at $75.0. Offers Custom plan. What is Vimeo Livestream and how does it work? Vimeo Livestreaming is a platform that delivers virtual events and conferences in high-quality to engage the workforce remotely. It helps organizations to virtually interact and engage with audiences or employees from all over the globe. Right from global events and town halls, to local meetings and training, users can broadcast to any audience anywhere. With over 10 million successful events, users get SLA, training, and account management services and dedicated support at all times. Security and privacy are kept at the top with a secure platform that enables single-sign-on and creates private live streams to make an impact right from the start. The video gallery comes as a centralized portal where users can easily manage, publish, and control business videos all in one place. The customization tools available help match videos with specific brands. The seamless video delivery ensures that every broadcast looks and sounds fantastic every single time. show more StreamYard StreamYard pricing: Starts at $20.0. Offers Free-forever plan. What is StreamYard and how does it work? StreamYard is a live streaming studio where users can share screens, interview guests, engage and discuss just anything. It’s a fantastic way to grow followers and audiences right away. Users can stream directly on YouTube, Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitch, and other platforms easily. It is the perfect tool to conduct live interviews and have up to 10 people in the stream making sessions interactive and engaging. With StreamYard, users can go one step further than just responding to questions and comments. Users can simply type out a call to action and the tool will directly add it to the live stream in a single click. Users can impress their audience by choosing different colors, images, videos, and GIFs with just a few clicks. It allows users to easily add custom graphics and logos within minutes. The tool takes care of all the complex stuff so that users can focus on their content and ideas on how to grow their brand. show more Muvi Muvi pricing: Starts at $399.0. Offers Custom plan. What is Muvi and how does it work? Muvi is the World's only All-in-One OTT Platform which allows you to launch White Label Multi-Device Video Streaming Platform offering Video on Demand (VOD) &amp; Live Streaming as well as an Audio Streaming Platform offering Music Streaming and Live Audio Broadcast instantly. Launch your own Live Broadcast Radio channel instantly. Start streaming talk shows to your own Radio Channel without any hassles. Everything included end-to-end and take care of by Muvi, Go-Live instantly. show more vMix vMix pricing: Starts at $60.0. Offers Free-forever plan. What is vMix and how does it work? vMix is a comprehensive live streaming and video production software. It allows users to mix audio, switch inputs, record outputs, and live stream video files, cameras, audios and more, in resolutions up to 4K. They can stream videos on 4 separate overlay channels with different transition effects and settings. The software is easy-to-use for individuals with intermediate-level efficiency and touch operations are possible on Android and iOS devices from remote places with vMix Web Controller. Its capability of processing live video effects like rotate, zoom, crop, color correction at 4:4:4 32bit space and pan deinterlace gives you the opportunity to produce industry-grade video output. You can also record videos live and stream across multiple platforms simultaneously, such as YouTube, Facebook, Periscope, Twitch, Ustream, and more. With the full-motion zoom feature, the software makes it possible for you to change the positions of your camera as per your needs. Personalized playback options and live conferencing with up to eight members on the vMix call are some of the other coveted features. show more BoxCast BoxCast pricing: Starts at $99.0. What is BoxCast and how does it work? BoxCast is an easy-to-use live streaming solution for organizations. It allows enterprises, churches, schools, municipalities, etc to build live streaming infrastructure for their video conferencing needs. The tool can acquire videos from a number of sources including any camera, video mixer, or encoders that support RTMP. The software brings a feature-rich editing tool that enables video editing over the cloud. Users can do professional-level video mixing, add custom designs, from the application's dashboard. It can even showcase scoreboard visuals in the cloud. The videos are rendered at higher frame rates for smooth playback. Users can stream videos of resolution of up to 1080 pixels, thanks to BoxCast's advanced hardware compression, which performs best for live video encoding. The BoxCast Flow tool reduces congestion while transferring videos by using only 1/3 of the total bandwidth, thus saving data without compromising with the video quality. By monitoring metrics involved in each of the video streaming lifecycles, the software automatically troubleshoots most of the issues before they can actually create any problem. show more OneStream OneStream pricing: Starts at $8.0. Offers Free-forever plan. What is OneStream and how does it work? OneStream is a cloud-based streaming service. It allows users to schedule and live stream pre-recorded videos across 40+ social media sites simultaneously, including Twitch, Facebook Live, YouTube Live, Instagram, and more. With the help of this tool, you can schedule the live streaming of your pre-recorded videos up to 60 days in advance. The stored videos can be streamed directly from Dropbox, Google Drive, pCloud or OneDrive, which helps in saving Internet bandwidth. OneStream offers different upload options that allow you to capture your screen to live stream at a later date or you can use your camera to record yourself. There’s no need for any kind of setup or installation and while this software takes care of your live streaming needs, you can focus on creating powerful, creative, and engaging videos. This software has capabilities to uncomplicate the process of live video streaming. show more Melon Melon pricing: Starts at $12.5. Offers Free-forever plan. What is Melon and how does it work? Melon is a fantastic Livestream app for connecting creators. Stream directly to Facebook, YouTube, Linked In, and other platforms in 5 clicks. Invite guests, share the screen, customize the appearance, and much more. Melon has been great in helping record conversations. In Melon all processing is done in the cloud, preserving the computer. Record and stream at the same time, giving access to video files, Or just record without going live. show more Streamlabs OBS Streamlabs OBS pricing: Streamlabs OBS Offers Custom plan. What is Streamlabs OBS and how does it work? Streamlabs OBS is an active live streaming software for content creators to help them stream videos on YouTube, Twitch, Facebook and other platforms of their choice. An inbuilt layout editor and drag &amp; drop functionality within the particular allows users to personalize their live streaming platform as per convenience and create a unique UI as well. Moreover, users can record their live stream videos or choose the sources appearing in the live stream. They can easily save replays of their clips or live streams, enabling viewers to watch them later. Streamlabs OBS’s simple and user-friendly interface allows users to view recent events and chats within a single screen. It can also be used to create custom video intros for YouTube and Twitch channels using a variety of pre-made templates already available. Further, a wide range of unique shapes and symbols available within the particular can be used to design unique logos as per convenience. show more Ant Media Server Ant Media Server pricing: Starts at $0.09. What is Ant Media Server and how does it work? Ant Media Server is a streaming tool which provides end to end latency in microseconds. The tool supports WebRTC, RTMP, MP4, HLS, and RTSP, which enables it to deliver streams everywhere and on varying internet speeds. It lets managers scale publishers and viewers with auto-scaling clusters. WebRTC and RTMP SDKs aid both broadcasting and streaming in iOS, Android, and JavaScript. It provides compatibility with ONVIF IP cameras with PTZ and Auto-Discovery Features allowing Remote Stream Pulling(RTSP/RTMP/HLS) for IPTV solutions. Both Community and Enterprise Editions Open Source Community Edition are on GitHub. The tool can be used for multiple solutions, such as scaling number of viewers with ultra-low latency streaming, monitor IP cameras with ultra-low latency on a web browser, and more. It even delivers reliable interactions between viewers and broadcasters in webinars and video game streamings with ultra-low latency. show more Ozolio Ozolio pricing: Starts at $49.0. Offers Custom plan. What is Ozolio and how does it work? Ozolio is a real-time HD webcam streaming solution that improves website traffic, brand awareness, visitor access, and community engagement to your unique location. Ozolio provides its customers with 24x7 real-time streaming. Users can make full use of their location or attractions through the brand's reliable live broadcast solution. Ozolio's ads allow customers to promote their attractions, events, and partners through pre-loaded ads. You can also replace the live broadcast with other content at night to achieve greater coverage. They can also target their website audience and increase traffic. The brand allows users with the option to automatically record a daily delay and play the recording at night or when your camera is offline. Users can also download pre-recorded media content and use it for their marketing needs. There are restrictions on protecting sensitive areas, and it is safe for users to use Domain Protector for embedded codes. show more Castr Castr pricing: Starts at $12.5. Offers Custom plan. What is Castr and how does it work? Castr is an all-in-one live video streaming platform for businesses, broadcasters, content creators, educational and religious organizations, and non-profits. With Castr you can stream buffer free and lag free to every platform at once, even your own website or app. You also get IP camera streaming, Akamai CDN, cloud storage, combined chat overlay, timeshifting and more. Castr also lets you broadcast to 30+ social networks at the same time or simply use Castr Embeded Video player to broadcast on your own website. show more Switchboard Live Switchboard Live pricing: Starts at $35.0. What is Switchboard Live and how does it work? Switchboard Live is a live video streaming solution that makes it possible for users to stream live videos on multiple platforms simultaneously. Brands and content creators can take a video live on multiple platforms such as YouTube, Facebook, Twitch, Periscope, Custom RTMP destinations, etc. This enables them to customize their streams and broadcast them on platforms that do not allow enough customization and lack options to add multiple persons in a live video. The software allows the host to add the brand logo, watermark, overlays, etc. Users do not need to invite people on one platform to join the stream on the other. Switchboard Live enables each platform to push its own notification for the live stream, thus informing all the user bases of different platforms at once and without any hassle. The best part is that broadcasting on multiple platforms will not consume a hefty bandwidth. Instead, the user just sends a copy of his stream to Switchboard Live, and the software itself leverages its powerful infrastructure to distribute it over all the platforms. This saves all the bandwidth without compromising with the streams’ quality. show more Wowza Streaming Engine Wowza Streaming Engine pricing: Starts at $125.0. Offers Custom plan. What is Wowza Streaming Engine and how does it work? Wowza Streaming Engine is a customizable streaming server software for building and delivering professional-grade streaming at any scale. Ingest streams from any encoder and deliver video and audio streams to any player or device. Create live, linear, or on-demand streaming applications for live events, video conferencing, audio streaming, 24/7 streaming, and more. Refine your live streaming workflow by transcoding to deliver the highest quality streams. Leverage tools, APIs, and SDKs to automate workflows, accelerate your development cycle, and deliver innovative streaming services. show more Contentflow Contentflow pricing: Starts at $989.0. Offers Custom plan. What is Contentflow and how does it work? Contentflow is a live streaming platform that facilitates high-quality hybrid or full virtual events, marketing/engaging sales activities, and safe and scalable corporate communication. It handles all aspects of live broadcasting and covers all the elements of live streaming for you. With Contentflow, you can distribute your video to any RTMP-compatible destination, such as Twitch, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube or any other. You can add a completely reactive white labelled web player to your website or receive picture signals from any device with RTMP Ingest. You can automatically add high-quality subtitles to your live broadcast across all channels and cut and edit video files in real time on the cloud, including rendering. With Contentflow, you can publish clips to your social media accounts with ease and view the number of users who have viewed your broadcasts at any given moment, or generate a geolocation heatmap to see where your viewers are. You can add static inserts such as a logo to your live feeds and cut the initial clips from the current stream in the browser with ease. show more StreamShark StreamShark pricing: Starts at $199.0. Offers Custom plan. What is StreamShark and how does it work? StreamShark is a comprehensive live streaming platform that allows enterprises to securely stream live video sessions. Users can organize live and on-demand information into custom styled channels that synchronize with the brand or an event's purpose. They can also highlight content in live video sessions. These streams can be taken to social media platforms as well. Thereafter, the Encoder Management module enables the onboarding of encoders into the software to remotely control live streams and events. The platform's dashboard is clean and user-friendly. It contains all necessary information and buttons to manage an event and access encoder controls on the same page. With the Peer-to-Peer (P2P) delivery system, users can reduce the load from their organization's network by live-streaming the content on an internal network. There is also the option to stream 360-degree videos and that too in 4K resolution. Besides, all the content, user information, and shared data are secured with powerful end-to-end encryption. show more Upstream Upstream pricing: Upstream Offers Custom plan. What is Upstream and how does it work? Upstream is an advanced professional networking platform that is designed to redefine professional networking with products that ensure life changing connections and organic interactions. Upstream transforms the way you connect professionally with people with its life-changing tools and features. With Upstream, you can host community events like engaging and interactive virtual interviews involving guest speakers, and 1:1 video breakouts for members of the community. Upstream enables you to find a community consisting of amazing people who share the same interests and goals as you do. It additionally allows you to attend and host office hours which is an excellent way of meeting new people, engaging with them and sharing their opinions. Users can join various on-going events or office hours or communities to grow their professional network and inculcate as many similar individuals in it as they can. You just have to join a community or an event to join the Upstream platform. show more LiveReacting LiveReacting pricing: Starts at $3.99. What is LiveReacting and how does it work? LiveReacting is a tool that helps users enrich their live videos in a smooth and hassle-free way. Through interactive templates, graphics, and elements, users can get more views and keep followers and friends engaged. LiveReacting is perfectly designed for SMM, digital agencies, influencers, and brands looking to draw in the crowds. With the pre-recorded videos feature, users can schedule a pre-recorded video and publish it as live; this is a great option for the ones who are nervous to host a live stream in real-time. The tool also enables users to go ahead and create live streams with a countdown timer for an event to post on Facebook. With this, users can increase a sense of urgency and up their sales. The combination of Trivia Game with Facebook Live is another exciting feature. It’s a real-time interactive game inside a live video session. With LiveReacting, users can get to know their audience preferences and increase brand awareness through the interactive Facebook Live Poll feature. show more Teyuto Teyuto pricing: Starts at $111.03. Offers Custom plan. What is Teyuto and how does it work? Teyuto is a video management platform that allows companies to post content to tailored video on demand (VOD) services and analyse marketing data. Auto-play next video, live streaming, malicious bot identification, money processing, metadata management, and content scheduling are all important aspects. During live streaming sessions, managers can use the solution to add closed captions, modify speed, and cast videos to television. On a centralised dashboard, administrators may add FAQs and terms pages, upload multilingual material, and build custom domains. Teyuto provides a uniform interface for teams to engage target audiences through live chat, comments, fast polls, and more. Supervisors can also create subscriptions, discounts, gift cards, and charge transaction fees on a variety of sales. Operators can use Teyuto to add trailers, resume watching, picture in picture, and other features to their films. Stakeholders can also use secure sockets layer (SSL) security and secure HTTP live streaming (HLS) videos to protect their data. show more Related Categories List of Live Stream Software Buyer's Guide on Live Stream Software For a tool to be in the live stream software category, it must: Articles on Live Stream Software Related Links Popular Categories Trending Categories Featured Links Popular Softwares Featured Softwares Trending Softwares Live Stream Features We understand SaaS better SaaSworthy helps stakeholders choose the right SaaS platform based on detailed product information, unbiased reviews, SW score and recommendations from the active community. Buyers Looking for the right SaaS? We can help you choose the best SaaS for your specific requirements. Our in-house experts will assist you with their hand-picked recommendations. Makers Want more customers? Our experts will research about your product and list it on SaaSworthy for FREE. feedback@saasworthy.com Pay-Per-View Video Hosting Live Streaming Multistreaming Video Channels Scheduler Media Panel Global Video CDN Secure Streaming Video Player Video Analytics Media Uploads Developers & APIs Blog Knowledge Base Video Tutorials Developers & APIs Services Status Contact Us The Best Live Video Streaming Software Of 2023: Here’s The Winner One of the big hurdles for first-time streamers is the live streaming software. So many options&hellip; Can you use the free OBS or do you need a premium solution like Wirecast? What should you look for when choosing streaming video software? We&rsquo;ll answer these questions, but first let&rsquo;s set some things straight. What is streaming video software? Your camera produces a raw video signal which has to be encoded in order to be broadcast over the web. The streaming software (one of the two types of streaming encoders) is responsible for the encoding of your live stream. After encoding, it will deliver your live video in one of two formats&mdash;RTMP (Real-Time Messaging Protocol) or HLS (HTTP Live Streaming). Typically, RTMP allows for lower latency but HLS has adaptive bitrate streaming which means that it can adjust the video quality to accommodate any fluctuations in the viewer&rsquo;s internet connection. Live Streaming Setup And Equipment Before you start streaming your video content and before you even download that streaming software, you will need the best live streaming equipment. Computer Hardware Capture Card The capture card is what gets the video signal from your camera (connected by HDMI) to your computer. It allows you to transmit the raw video content without sacrificing the quality of your live broadcast. The MiraBox Capture Card is one of the most highly rated capture cards available, supporting all 1080p/720p devices including games consoles, set-top boxes, and DSLR cameras. Best Free Streaming software #1 OBS Open Broadcaster Software (OBS) was created back in 2012 by Hugh "Jim" Bailey. This lightweight and versatile video capture software is the go-to solution for many live streamers. Besides live streaming with a camera, you can also use it to stream your desktop, record a video game or record your computer screen as mp4. The downside? OBS is truly powerful streaming video software. It&rsquo;s on par with streaming video solutions that cost hundreds of dollars which means that it can be difficult to set up for a beginner. There are lots of menus and settings and, if you&rsquo;re new to live streaming, you can easily find all of this overwhelming. Also, since this is free software, you don&rsquo;t get access to round-the-clock tech support. OBS Studio System Requirements And Specs OS compatibility Windows 7 or higher, macOS 10.10 or higher, and Ubuntu 14.04 or higher CPU Requirements Intel i3-2100 3.1GHz or higher Ability to capture desktop Yes Ability to capture webcam Yes Streaming to multiple destinations Yes Streaming with multiple cameras Yes Encoding formats H.264 software encoder, NVIDIA NVENC hardware encoder, Intel Quick Sync hardware encoder, AMD VCE hardware encoder How To Set Up OBS: Tutorial From A To Z #2 Nvidia Shadowplay If you have an Nvidia graphics card, you might be in luck. GTX 650 and higher desktop graphics adapters support Nvidia&rsquo;s proprietary streaming video capture software&mdash;ShadowPlay. ShadowPlay takes advantage of an H.264 hardware encoder (NVENC) that is integrated into the Kepler GPU. This technology supports live streaming in up 4K at 60 frames per second. Pretty impressive! The downside? ShadowPlay is designed for game streaming. You can also record your desktop and overlay your webcam but if you&rsquo;re looking to live stream an event or a church sermon, it won&rsquo;t do. Unless you&rsquo;re looking specifically for game streaming software, you might want to go for one of the other pieces of software on our list. By the way, if you do have one of the supported graphics cards, you can set OBS to use Nvidia&rsquo;s hardware encoder, NVENC, and enjoy the same performance that ShadowPlay allows. Nvidia ShadowPlay System Requirements And Specs OS compatibility Windows 7, 8, or 10 CPU Requirements Intel i3-2100 3.1GHz or higher Ability to capture desktop Yes Ability to capture webcam Yes, but only as an overlay Streaming to multiple destinations No Streaming with multiple cameras N/A Encoding formats NVIDIA NVENC hardware encoder #3 Streamlabs OBS If you can&rsquo;t get your head around using OBS, then Streamlabs OBS (SLOBS) might be just what you need. It&rsquo;s a variation of OBS with a less steeper learning curve. The downside? There is hardly any but, if we have to name one, it would be that SLOBS is not OBS. Although it is built on top of OBS, it&rsquo;s managed by a completely different team and, so, you can&rsquo;t hope to get the latest OBS updates on SLOBS. But you are getting quite a lot, as we can see, so it&rsquo;s probably not that much of a problem. Streamlabs OBS System Requirements And Specs OS compatibility Windows 7 SP1 64 bit or higher CPU Requirements Intel Core i7 or equivalent Ability to capture desktop Yes Ability to capture webcam Yes Streaming to multiple destinations Yes Streaming with multiple cameras Yes Encoding formats x264 software encoder, Intel Quick Sync hardware encoder, AMD VCE hardware encoder, NVIDIA NVENC hardware encoder, Best Professional Streaming Software #1 XSplit XSplit is a live streaming and video-mixing application developed and maintained by SplitmediaLabs. It comes in two flavors&mdash;the free limited version called XSplit Gamecaster and the premium version called XSplit Broadcaster. Price In terms of pricing, XSplit Broadcaster is on the low end. You can get a 3-month license at $8.32/mo, a 12-month license at $5/mo and a lifetime license at $199. We think that&rsquo;s quite a fair price for premium video mixing and broadcasting software that comes with 24/7 support. The downside? Some users report that XSplit slows their machines down. Also, it is not available for Mac. XSplit Broadcaster System Requirements And Specs OS compatibility Windows 7 SP1 64 bit or higher CPU Requirements 2nd Generation Core i5 CPU or equivalent. Ability to capture desktop Yes Ability to capture webcam Yes Streaming to multiple destinations Yes Streaming with multiple cameras Yes Encoding formats x264 software encoder, Intel Quick Sync hardware encoder, AMD VCE hardware encoder, NVIDIA NVENC hardware encoder, AVermedia H.264 hardware encoder #2 vMix VMix is powerhouse live streaming encoder software. If you are looking for a high-end video mixer and switcher that&rsquo;s capable of almost any video production task, this is it. The interface actually looks like one of those advanced audio/video mixing consoles that are used at news broadcasting companies. Price vMix comes in 6 different packages - Basic, Basic HD, SD, HD, 4K and Pro. The Basic version is free to use. The package prices vary between $60 - $1,200 depending on the features. The downside? vMix is professional live streaming and video mixing software which is why it has a rather steep learning curve. If you are just getting into live streaming and you have no idea how to use advanced features like chroma key, then vMix will probably be biting off more than you can chew. Our recommendation in that case would be to start small. vMix System Requirements &amp; Specs OS compatibility Windows 7 or newer CPU Requirements Quad Core 3.4 Ghz Ability to capture desktop Yes Ability to capture webcam Yes Streaming to multiple destinations Yes Streaming with multiple cameras Yes Encoding formats H.264 software encoder, NVIDIA NVENC hardware encoder, Intel Quick Sync hardware encoder #3 Wirecast Wirecast is live video streaming production software by Telestream. It is a software video switcher and mixer that allows you to dynamically mix media from various sources like audio files, video files, cameras, microphones, and so on. Price Wirecast has two different price packages&mdash;the Basic version at $495 and the advanced version costs $995. The company also offers premium support at $99/year. The downside? Just like vMix, Wirecast is professional streaming software with hundreds of menus and options which could be confusing for a beginner. Compared to vMix, the interface is a bit more user friendly so it&rsquo;s relatively easy to get up to speed and start using this live streaming software. The price is a bit steep and, if we have to be honest, OBS offers many of Wirecast&rsquo;s advanced video streaming features for free. Wirecast System Requirements And Specs OS compatibility Windows 7 or higher, Mac OS Sierra or higher CPU Requirements i7 quad-core @ 2.8GHz+ Ability to capture desktop Yes Ability to capture webcam Yes Streaming to multiple destinations Yes Streaming with multiple cameras Yes Encoding formats H.264 software encoding, Intel Quick Sync Video hardware encoding, NVIDIA NVENC hardware encoding, Apple Hardware Accelerated H.264 Cheat Sheet: How to choose live video streaming software Twitch/game streaming software XSplit Gamecaster, SLOBS Live streaming software for beginners Nvidia Shadowplay, SLOBS, XSplit Broadcaster Professional, user-friendly streaming software for Mac and PC with 24/7 customer support Wirecast Powerful streaming software for PC vMix, OBS YouTube live streaming software OBS, SLOBS, XSplit Broadcaster Free streaming software for Mac OBS Free streaming software for PC OBS, SLOBS Facebook live streaming software OBS, SLOBS, XSplit Broadcaster Low CPU usage streaming software OBS, SLOBS, Nvidia Shadowplay Webcam streaming software OBS, SLOBS The Verdict - What is the best live streaming software? Our favorite is OBS studio because it&rsquo;s free open-source video streaming software that&rsquo;s in the same class as paid video streaming software like Wirecast and vMix. You can do just about anything with OBS studio, including advanced video and audio mixing, using chroma key (the &ldquo;green screen&rdquo;), streaming to multiple platforms, and more. OBS studio uses relatively few system resources which means that you won&rsquo;t need to invest in an extremely expensive computer in order to run it. There are dozens of plugins that are developed by the community and allow you to add all sorts of additional functionality. Further Reading &amp; Resources  How to Use Green Screen Backgrounds in Your Videos (for Beginners) Ever wondered if and how to use a green screen in your videos? Here are the basics you should know. How To Create A Video Website In A Day (Without Coding) If you’re looking to create a video website and you don’t know where to start, this step-by-step guide will help you clear the clouds. 5 Benefits Of All-In-One Live Production Producing high quality live events is no easy task. There’s a lot to think about: venue lighting, video and audio equipment, network bandwidth, destination video CDN, and, most importantly, the actual live production equipment. A live production requires a combination of video switchers, scalers, capture cards, a powerful encoder and a recording device. Video Hosting and Live Streaming CDN Delivery That Works in China Are you looking for video hosting and live streaming CDN service that can deliver your video content inside China? If so, this is your lucky day. StreamingVideoProvider is a video hosting site that works in China! You can use our platform to upload your video content or stream live events, seminars, TV and radio shows, church services, corporate meetings etc., and deliver them to your viewers worldwide, including those who are located inside mainland China. Contact Subscribe for latest news: We are a great alternative to: Social Country Europe North America All-in-One Live Streaming Solution Go Live or Schedule Recorded Videos to 40+ Social Media Platforms & the Web at Once One-Stop Shop of Power-Packed Features Save time and effort. Focus on creating powerful live streams. No Software Installation Required Social Media Streaming Multicast to 40+ streaming networks including Facebook Live, YouTube, Instagram, Twitter, Wowza Media Systems, Twitch & many more! Pre-Recorded Streaming Schedule your pre-recorded videos for live streaming to social media up to 60 days in advance Read more Third-Party RTMP Sourcing Use any streaming tool like OBS, Zoom, Ecamm, Webex, Wirecast, XSplit, etc., and start multistreaming across social media Read more Live Spaces Live stream on your personalized web page with Live Spaces, whether or not you have a personal website Read more Playlist Streaming Queue recorded videos in any order of your choice and schedule them to go live on multiple social media streaming platforms Read more Custom RTMP Streaming Configure & stream to your own Custom RTMP streaming destination using Server URL & Stream Key Read more Cloud Storage Integration Import videos directly from any S3 or cloud storage from across the world and save your internet bandwidth - Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, pCloud, Zoom & Webex recordings, Box, Frame.io, S3 Amazon, etc. Read more Embed Player Embed live streams on your own website or anywhere you wish and reach a wider audience with ease Read more Different Upload Options Upload videos stored in your computer, use camera to record yourself, or capture your screen to live stream later Read more Captions / Subtitles Add captions or subtitles to pre-recorded live streams using SRT files Read more Team Management Manage your team members to collaborate and live stream more efficiently Read more Unified Chat Efficiently manage incoming messages, comments & replies from multiple streaming platforms on a single screen Read more How it works Video Live Streaming Simplified Select Pre-recorded Video Choose a video file stored on your computer or cloud storage (Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive, pCloud, Zoom & Webex Recordings, Box, Frame.io) that you wish to stream live. Schedule Live Stream Pick a date and time of your choice, when you wish your video live stream to start automatically. Choose Social Networks Select streaming destinations. OneStream will stream it at the set time. All the transcoding, processing, and live streaming will be handled automatically. Get Streaming Settings (RTMP) Copy your Server URL and Stream Key from the OneStream dashboard. Configure Streaming Tool Set up external streaming software like OBS, Zoom, Webex, Ecamm, Wirecast, XSplit, etc. and start sending streams to OneStream servers. Start Multicasting Select streaming destinations. Choose multiple destination streaming platforms where you wish to multistream your incoming stream.  Reviewed Excellent on Trustpilot Live Stream on the Go! OneStream apps are available for pre-recorded and real-time live streaming. FAQ Common questions and answers What is OneStream? OneStream is a cloud-based service to schedule &amp; live stream pre-recorded videos as well as real-time streaming to 40+ social media platforms including Facebook Live, YouTube, Instagram, Twitch, or any Custom RTMP Streaming Destination. Who can use OneStream? With powerful scheduling &amp; multistreaming features, it is designed to cater to businesses involved in marketing &amp; live streaming. Though anyone can use it. Video formats &amp; qualities? OneStream allows all the major video formats and qualities. Don't worry, our server will transcode your video to the required specs for live streaming to the destination platform. More Questions? Have a look at OneStream Resource Hub for frequently asked questions. Email or chat with us live to know anything! Ask our Support team Sign Up for free Get Started Not convinced yet? Check out these awesome features Analytics &amp; Insights Gain detailed insights about your live streams performance and user engagement. OneStream Storage Save your videos and use them to reschedule your streams. Save your time and bandwidth. 360&#176; Videos Support Go live even with recorded 180&#176; or 360&#176; videos. Engage your viewers like never before. REFERRAL PROGRAM OneStream's affiliate program shares 55% of revenue for every paid subscriber referred by you. LEARN MORE Resources CONTACT US Follow Us Contact us Have any questions? Send us a message. Thanks for contacting us! We will get back to you very soon. Meet Ecamm Live Look better on video. Easily. It’s Ecamm. Live stream to your favorite destinations: Screen and Audio Capture HDMI Capture Video Playback iOS Sharing via USB Stereo Audio Mix NewTek NDI® Blackmagic DeckLink DSLR via USB In-App Comments Live Scheduling Web Widgets Animations Stream Deck Support Green Screen Advanced Overlays Remote Guests Social Platform Integation Isolated Audio Multistream with Restream.io Local Recording NDI Output Realtime Monitoring Custom RTMP Virtual Camera & Mic From beginners to experts, thousands trustEcamm Live to power their video productions. Join the Community Our Community is the perfect space for asking questions, sharing tips and tricks, swapping stories, and getting advice. We also post updates, host giveaways, and just have fun together. After all, that’s what communities are for. And hey - you’re welcome anytime.  Connect with #EcammLive ABOUT US PRODUCTS FOLLOW Professional live streaming software for everyone. The most powerful, customizable live video streaming and production tools for Mac and Windows. Professional live streaming software for everyone. Professional live streaming software for everyone. The most powerful, customizable live video streaming and production tools for Mac and Windows. The most powerful, customizable live video streaming and production tools for Mac and Windows. Wirecast professional live video streaming and production studio software lets you create high-quality live-streaming video in minutes, great for YouTube live streaming, live sports streaming, Facebook live streaming, and so much more. Engage with your live audience! Bring in remote guests, and display curated social media comments live on-screen in your broadcasts! Capture any media Create memorable live video broadcasts on Mac or Windows, using: Produce pro content Limitless customization allows you to add polish and professionalism with: Stream live in seconds Simultaneously broadcast and record content, via: The Wirecast Workflow Capture Professional Audio/Video Produce Engaging Broadcasts Stream Live & Output Capture Professional Audio/Video Capture Professional Audio/Video Produce Engaging Broadcasts Produce Engaging Broadcasts Stream Live & Output Stream Live & Output Trusted by thousands Wirecast Solutions Worship Services Engage with and expand your congregation with customizable, high-quality live streams of your services and events. Easily collaborate, produce, and broadcast baptisms, sermons, and other special moments using Wirecast’s intuitive platform and professional support options. Corporate For press events, product launches, company all-hands meetings, lead generation, and more: Stand out among your competition and grow your business by creating a professional, custom-branded live viewing experience in minutes. Live Events Host your next event online and engage with your audience in just a few clicks with reliable, professional, live video streaming. Whether you have a laptop and a webcam, or a more involved multi-camera production, the flexibility and power of Wirecast makes it the perfect broadcast tool for any situation. Media & Broadcasting Easily integrate Wirecast into your broadcast production workflow for supplemental content and multistreaming to social media. Produce high-quality, professional live streams on par with leading broadcasters, whether you have a shoestring budget or a large-scale production. Live Sports Capture the action and share it across multiple social media channels in seconds, with flexibility and complete creative freedom. Stream 4K content and include custom graphics, scoreboards, clocks, timers, and more from a professional, easy-to-use broadcast tool. Education Stop being constrained by the limited capabilities of free streaming platforms. Energize and engage with your students through professional live-streaming video content that captures students’ attention. Brand & Content Creators Stream 4K video content live and grow your influence in just a few clicks with the limitless flexibility of professional streaming software. Government Improve cross-departmental communications and maintain professional standards of quality and delivery with turnkey live video streaming products. Produce videos using existing hardware, then broadcast with confidence using Wirecast’s reliable streaming platform. Easy-to-use Features Unlimited Sources Cameras, microphones, webcams, IP cams, or use our free wireless camera app for iOS. See a full list of compatible devices. Desktop, NDI &amp; Web Capture Capture a variety of IP sources or anything on your computer screen or other computers. Automatically detect NDI sources. Built-in web-browser can display live web pages. Professional Audio Multi-channel audio ingest, support for ASIO, WASAPI and CoreAudio compatible devices. Mix up to 8 independent audio tracks, and add FX and processing. Controllers Use Elgato Stream Deck with Wirecast with our new plugin. And check out the X-keys controller for Wirecast Mac or Windows. See a full list of devices. Conferencing &amp; Remote Production Rendezvous peer-to-peer conferencing comes built-in to Wirecast. Send guests a link to join your live broadcast. Use Rendezvous Chat for private messages. Stock Media Library Access to over 500,000 unique media assets directly in Wirecast. The Stock Media Library has videos, music, lower thirds, backgrounds and more. Included with an active Wirecast Access plan. Replay, Scoreboards, Clocks & Timers Great for sports producers. Wirecast has professional features to let your live viewers follow the action in the moment, and never miss an important play. Social Media Integration Built-in, moderated Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube comment overlays, integrated Facebook Polling, and live viewer counts keep you engaged and in touch with your audience. Graphics and Titles Built-in Animated Title Library with fully customizable, high-quality graphics. Add custom fonts, colors, logos, and text, as well as chroma keying and QR codes. Automated Production Workflows Shot templates, hotkeys, playlists, and more powerful automation features to more quickly create content. Unlimited Destinations Stream to Facebook Live, Twitter, YouTube, Vimeo Live or any destination via RTMP or SRT (caller mode). Stream to more than one at a time. Stream &amp; Record Stream and record at the same time. Great for archiving or off-line editing, record MP4 or MOV files to any drive. Multi-Viewer Monitor your sources with an up to 17-slot multiviewer grid. Great for confidence monitoring and a quick look at all your sources! ISO Recording Archive each live video input to a clean, unmodified file, separate from your composited program recording. Great for post-production workflows, and each ISO can be used as a live instant replay source! Expanded Output Options Send program feed out via NDI, baseband SDI/HDMI (via BlackMagic or AJA cards), Secondary Display Out, as well as Virtual Camera and Microphone out. Which Wirecast is right for you? Wirecast Studio $599&sup1; Wirecast Pro $799&sup1; Wirecast Studio $599&sup1; Wirecast Pro $799&sup1; Live event streaming simplified with Wirecast Gear All-in-one live video streaming production system Wirecast Gear gives you a fully configured live streaming production system that is affordable and easy to use. You can start streaming in minutes, with an end-to-end system configured specifically for your needs. We partner with the best in the biz Live Streaming Platform With Panopto’s secure one-click webcasting, anyone in your organization can live stream video. So easy even your C-suite can use it. Live stream events, communications, lectures, and more in stunning high-definition, with minimal buffering and no complicated setup. With Panopto, live streaming is as easy as selecting your video and audio sources, clicking “Webcast,” and pressing record. Panopto’s professional live streaming software offers a simple solution for what used to be a complex and costly endeavor. Built on modern streaming architecture, Panopto reliably delivers the highest quality video possible to viewers watching on any device, so you don’t need to set up live streaming servers, configure expensive encoders, or worry about bogging down your network. Panopto also records as it’s broadcasting, giving you a flawless recording that can be viewed on-demand as soon as the live stream ends. Secure video streaming keeps live streams private. Facebook Live, Periscope by Twitter, YouTube Live Streaming — if you’re streaming video to public social media feeds, you’ve got options. If you’re broadcasting something more important, however, you need a more secure, customizable solution. With Panopto, you’re in control of who gets to view your live streams. Restrict access just to people in your organization, or even just specific teams, classes, or individuals. And with Panopto, “private” really means “private.” Viewers are required to log in before they can view a secure live stream, even if they happen to find the direct link to the session. We take security seriously. Panopto integrates with single sign-on ID management solutions including oAuth, SAML, and Active Directory, as well as a number of LMS authentication systems for both desktop and mobile users. Present anything in a private live webcast online. To one person or one million. Forget the attendance caps on GoToWebinar and WebEx, and share your live streaming videos with a virtually unlimited audience. Whether it’s ten people or ten thousand, with Panopto your viewers will be able to securely watch your live stream in any web browser and without having to download any special software. Panopto makes it easy to create and share professional-quality live streaming videos without the need for A/V production crews or IT specialists, so you can webcast an international conference, a monthly meeting, or your regular classroom without external support. Share video from multiple cameras, multiple computer screens, and include supporting slides from PowerPoint, Keynote, or Google Slides — even stream from different computers and different locations. Panopto automatically syncs all your content, enabling you to share everything your audience needs to see without worrying about post-production. Slash the cost of video production. Record professional-quality live events without the professional price tag. If you’ve ever thought recording live corporate events was too complex to produce and manage in-house, it’s time to think again. With Panopto, your teams can produce professional-quality event videos at a fraction of the cost you’re used to paying. Record and live stream with just a few clicks. Then, once your event is over, Panopto automatically takes care of all those technical details that used to require a specialist — indexing for search (no more tagging), transcoding for optimal playback on any device, and instantly making the file available in your video library. Want proof? One of the world’s largest industrial engineering firms used Panopto to record a 3-day, 30-session international conference with nothing more than a few webcams, their presenters’ own laptops, and Panopto. Read their story &gt; “It’s amazing how simple it was — with Panopto, everything just worked. Instantly, we had a repeatable and reliable process that we could use with all our team meetings going forward.” Deliver live video messages and presentations in perfect clarity. With RTMP live captioning, you can make your live streams more accessible and enhance the viewing experience for non-native language speakers or for anyone who prefers to watch videos with closed captioning. Panopto supports live captioning on RTMP webcasts with CEA-608 or CEA-708 captioning, so you can ensure every detail in your live communications is received exactly as intended. When the webcast is over, Panopto automatically imports a recording of the video stream, complete with captions. Never miss a second with live DVR controls. Catch that last point again. TiVo-like controls allow viewers to pause, rewind and replay your live feed, then catch back up instantly. Viewers joining the live stream late can even start from the beginning and stream the entire webcast. Make live video streams interactive. Put an end to passive viewing. With threaded discussions, audience members can share digital notes and comments while watching a live webcast and submit questions to the presenter for live Q&amp;A. Panopto captures the entire experience so even viewers watching later on-demand can see the comments made during the event as they happened. Learn How To Request a Demo With Live Streaming And Virtual Events Stream live broadcasts on mobile devices. View a live stream on the go from anywhere. Panopto&#8217;s native apps for both Android and iOS enable users to view secure live streams on their mobile devices. Panopto’s HTML5 video player optimizes the viewer’s experience with fast startup and minimal buffering, regardless of their device or connection speed. Live streaming analytics and monitoring. Measure the reach of your live streamed events and the level of viewer engagement both during and after webcasts, all the way down to the user level. Panopto’s live video analytics gives you minute-by-minute stats about who’s watching, where people are dropping off, and more. And for larger, more visible live streams such as a global all-hands meeting or university commencement, your team can monitor the quality of the broadcast in real time. Panopto integrates with Hive Insights, a powerful live stream monitoring tool that sniffs out users or locations that are experiencing things like severe buffering, so you can identify problems and make adjustments on the fly. Customize your waiting room. Create links for your live streams as far in advance as you need. Attendees can join your live streams simply by clicking the link and signing in. If anyone happens to click the link prior to the event or they arrive early, Panopto will bring them to your virtual waiting room, so they’ll know they’re in the right place. Live video streaming is just the beginning. Many point solutions for live video are useful for live streaming — and only live streaming. Panopto’s end-to-end video platform not only supports professional live video streaming but also recording, editing, hosting, and more, all in a single solution. Record Live Streams Automatically Make live streams available for on-demand playback as soon as the webcast ends. Panopto automatically records and converts videos for easy playback. Easily Share Live Video Recordings Host live stream recordings securely. Every recording is uploaded automatically to your video library where it can be played on-demand on any device. Edit Live Stream Recordings Yourself You don’t need complicated video editing software to polish up live video. Cut, splice, and switch video inputs in Panopto’s online video editor. Index Live Recordings For Search Never lose a moment. Panopto automatically indexes every word spoken and shown on-screen in your live streams, making the content searchable. Massive-scale live streaming from RTMP encoders. Going big with your next broadcast? Panopto provides you with a live streaming platform that leverages existing encoding investments and scales elastically to enable your webcast to reach global audiences, securely over your WAN or over the public internet. Connect your RTMP encoders to Panopto’s cloud-based video platform and webcast live events to tens of thousands simultaneous viewers. Panopto ingests your RTMP feed and converts it to HTTP Live Streaming (HLS), the industry standard for delivering video at scale with minimum video startup time and buffering. Read more about live video streaming. Live Streaming 15 ideas for how your organization should be using live video for communications, training, sales, marketing, and customer engagement. Your Live Earnings Calls Are Terrible When business leaders find themselves searching for ways to improve their live earnings calls, they rarely look further than the material they’re presenting. Highlight the ...  Request a Demo Want to see Panopto for yourself? Just complete the form below. Our team will answer your questions, share a quick demo, and set you up with a free trial of our video platform. Copyright &copy;2023 Panopto. All Rights reserved. Dream It. Stream It. Simple yet powerful software for livestreaming Captivate your audience with engaging video — and do it with your existing gear. 15,000+ Creators 100,000+ Monthly Streams 115 Countries MEET YOUR AUDIENCE WHERE THEY ARE Share your world with the world Powerful live editing tools, built-in interactivity, seamless integrations — creating incredible livestreams is simple. Live Streaming without Switcher Live Streaming with Switcher See Switcher in Action 4.6 out of 5 Rated 4.6 out of 5 based on 1.3k Reviews on the Apple App Store. Recent Blogs How to Stream Cozy Nintendo Switch Games on Twitch Fall 2022 Switchback Ultimate Livestream Gear Setup Recommendations 2023 Streaming Destinations Company Support Resources Enter your search terms and hit ENTER or use ESC to exit 7+ Best Streaming Software (For Twitch and YouTube) 2023 Choosing the right streaming software is vitally important to your business. From Twitch to YouTube, the options can be overwhelming, and that&#8217;s why the best streaming software can help you meet your goals. In this guide, I ranked and reviewed the 7+ best streaming software, so that you can pick the best one for you. Restream Restream is a cloud-based streaming service that lets you simultaneously stream videos to over 30 platforms. Onestream OneStream offers the ability to stream and record live and pre-recorded videos, and publish them to over 40 social media platforms. Wirecast Wirecast is a live video streaming platform that helps you create TV-like live stream production and on-demand broadcasts for the web. Dacast Dacast is a video monetization platform and VOD streaming platform made for hosting and managing professional broadcasts. XSplit Broadcaster XSplit Broadcaster is a live streaming application used for capturing gameplay for live streaming or recording. We&#8217;re reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. The world of video is changing. We&#8217;re transitioning from an era of static video content to interactive live streaming.&nbsp; As attention spans get shorter, fans want engaging content with interactive elements.&nbsp; Streaming software is the solution. These tools help you stream live video, chat with your fans, embed interactive content, collect payments, and more.&nbsp; With as much as 79% of total mobile use going towards live streaming by 2022 (and with the figure set to increase) understanding streaming software is key. But there are a lot of options on the market.&nbsp; In this ultimate guide, I focused on streaming capabilities, video quality, integrations, video editing capabilities, pricing, support, and more to help me bring you the best software.&nbsp; Let&#8217;s get started.&nbsp; &nbsp; What is the Best Streaming Software? Here’s my list for the best streaming software for YouTube, Twitch, and more. 1. Restream. Best Overall Streaming Software (Free &#8211; $249/month). Adam&#8217;s Take Restream is my #1 pick for the best streaming software. Share your video feed to multiple destinations so you can reach the maximum number of viewers. The platform provides various features to help optimize your streams, including video transcoding and live chat support. You can also use Restream to schedule pre-recorded videos or create live events.  Best For Overall Price $0/mo-$41/mo Annual Discount Yes &#8211; Save 20% Promotion Start Free Restream is a cloud-based streaming service that lets you simultaneously stream videos to over 30 platforms, including Twitch, YouTube, Facebook, etc. They even provide native integration with prominent streaming software like XSplit, OBS Studio, Elgato, and more.&nbsp; It’s also one of the few streaming platforms that allow “Real-time Platform and Channel Toggling.” This means you can edit and add more channels while you’re “On Air” &#8211; without having to exit your broadcast or restart your encoder.&nbsp; On top of that, Restream also comes powered with plenty of additional tools to help you promote and analyze your live broadcasts.&nbsp; For instance, you can use the Restream Events feature to schedule and announce your upcoming stream in advance to build excitement. However, this feature is only available for Facebook, YouTube, and LinkedIn for now.&nbsp; They also allow you to measure your live stream’s success across numerous platforms &#8211; from a single dashboard. You can identify the most popular part of your stream, the peak time, the total number of viewers, watched minutes sorted by the platforms, and more.&nbsp; In addition, they have a built-in chat feature that you can display as an overlay during your live stream. There are even options to customize the look-and-feel of your chat box using over 20 pre-designed templates.&nbsp; Other Key Features:&nbsp; Pricing Plans:&nbsp; Restream comes with five plans (including one free plan and four paid plans).&nbsp; Try Restream risk free for 7 days. 2. OneStream. Best Streaming Software (Free &#8211; $89/month) Adam&#8217;s Take If you want to share your content to several social media platforms at once, look no further than OneStream. This robust streaming and recording tool lets you quickly post your videos to over 40 social media sites, which is an excellent use of time and energy.  Best For Reach Price $0/mo-$74/mo Annual Discount Yes &#8211; Save 20% Promotion Start Free OneStream is the best overall streaming software, with the ability to stream and record live and pre-recorded videos, and publish them to over 40 social media platforms. With pre-recorded streams, you can record and then schedule your broadcasts to social media platforms up to 60 days in advance. With live streaming, you can couple OneStream with other streaming tools configure this tool, and start multicasting: Scheduling pre-recorded videos is also super easy. You just upload your video file, pick a date and time, and select your streaming destinations like YouTube, Twitch, Facebook, Instagram, Periscope, and more. Key Features: Pricing: OneStream provides four pricing options: For the best streaming software, try out OneStream for free and upgrade to a paid plan when you&#8217;re ready. 3. Wirecast. Best Professional Live Streaming Software (Starting at $599). Adam&#8217;s Take Want to have a professional-looking live show or broadcast? With the ability to create on-demand broadcasts and live stream productions, you can share your message with the world! Wirecast lets you capture video from multiple cameras, share your screen, and add graphics and titles.  Best For Professionals Price $599-$799 Annual Discount No Promotion 30 Day Trial Wirecast is a live video streaming production platform developed by Telestream. It helps you create TV-like live stream production and on-demand broadcasts for the web. You can leverage its flexible and intuitive UI to customize your live feed easily. All you have to do is just plug in your mic and camera. It automatically handles all the encoding to deliver your live stream to any geography at scale. It covers every type of live stream event, including live sports, worship services, television, radio &amp; news broadcasts, etc. To help you capture your video content on the go, Wirecast also offers a free iOS camera app. You can stream to more than one destination, including ANY RTMP destination. It also lets you embed live captions to make your videos more accessible for differently-abled viewers. Key Features: Pros: Pricing: Wirecast provides two versions: It&#8217;s a pricier tool, but the best professional live streaming software out there. Get started with Wirecast. 4. Dacast. Best Video Monetization Platform ($39.99 per month; 30-Day Free Trial). Adam&#8217;s Take If you want to make money from your videos, or need a reliable and professional streaming solution for your business, then Dacast is the platform I recommend. With their easy-to-use tools and features, you can quickly get your videos online and start generating revenue. Their state-of-the-art security and streaming infrastructure ensure that your broadcasts are always available and of the highest quality.  Best For Monetization Price $39/mo-$188/mo Annual Discount Yes &#8211; Save 25% Promotion 14-Day Trial Dacast is a video monetization platform and VOD streaming platform made for hosting, live streaming, and managing professional broadcasts. First, they offer powerful and secure video hosting, with a content management system to store all of your recorded and live video content. Dacast is best known as an OTT platform with great video monetization features. They automatically convert currency behind paywalls to reflect the cost of streaming to the viewer, incluging subscription models, pay-per-view, and advertisting. Key Features: Pricing: Dacast has four main pricing plans, including: To test out their live streaming and video monetization features, you can try Dacast for free with a 30-day trial. 5. XSplit Broadcaster. Best For Live Streaming &amp; Recording Console Gameplay ($2.50 per month). Adam&#8217;s Take When it comes to gamers and game casters, XSplit Broadcaster is one of the most popular streaming applications around. It&#8217;s known for its ease of use and wide range of features, which in my opinion, makes it the best live streaming software for those who want to get started in live game streaming.  Best For Gamers Price $30/mo-$70/mo Annual Discount Yes-Save 70% Promotion Start For $30 XSplit Broadcaster is a live streaming application used for capturing gameplay for live streaming or recording. It helps you start your live stream or recording within a few seconds. You also get an in-game stream control HUD that helps you: There’s also one Projector Mode that enables you to display multiple scenes to devices connected to your computer’s GPU. XSplit also handles all your required encoding settings. What’s more, it guides you to make the right setup and stream in the best possible quality of up to 4k60fps. And the best part is that you can handle all the controls of the stream from a single screen. It also provides a high-end sub-product called XSplit Gamecaster for free and easy streaming for gamers. Key Features: Pros: Pricing: The pro version starts at $2.50 per month. There’s also a free plan for limited features. Get started with XSplit Broadcaster. 6. Streamlabs OBS. Best for live streamers and businesses looking for an open-source solution (Free). Streamlabs OBS is a cloud-based streaming platform for Twitch, YouTube, &amp; Facebook. It offers hundreds of stream overlays, templates, and assets to customize your live streams professionally. For instance, you can use “Be Right Back” and “Starting Soon” screens for your live stream event. It also comes with an app store that offers 46 apps to help you with: You can also easily embed multiple elements, including your goals, alert box, and others directly from the Streamlabs website. It also offers noise gain and suppression features to easily weed out unwanted/ background noise from the live stream. Key Features: Pros: Pricing: Streamlabs OBS is a free and open-source streaming solution. However, it provides a premium toolkit for professionals for $12 per month (billed annually). Premium features include free apps, professionally designed themes &amp; widgets, mobile streaming, custom domain, and more. 7. OBS Studio. Best free, open-source option (Free). (Open Broadcaster Software) OBS Studio is another open-source, cross-platform streaming and recording platform. It helps you execute high-quality video or audio editing, capturing, and mixing in real-time. You can create highly customized scenes through multiple sources, including text, window captures, images, webcams, capture cards, and browser windows. The open-source software also lets you switch between an unlimited number of scenes during the broadcast while using custom transitions. On top of that, you can use its capable audio mixer that comes with pre-source filters like noise suppression, noise gate, and gain. It also offers VST plugin support to ensure you have total control over your audio. Key Features: Pros: Pricing: OBS Studio is a free streaming platform. 8. Twitch Studio. Best for gamers who want to live stream on Twitch (Free). Twitch Studio is a free streaming app that lets you live stream directly on Twitch. Twitch developed it to help its fans live stream video games from the same platform. Here is my step-by-step guide about how to stream on Twitch. It offers a streamlined setup to help you broadcast live streams even if you’re using complex setups. Plus, you get access to step-by-step onboarding, automatic hardware detection, and recommended settings to make your streams look professional with minimal efforts. You can also personalize your streams to meet your personal branding requirements. Twitch Studio lets you personalize everything you want, including: Additionally, you can use its built-in ‘desktop audio capture’ feature to share the audio from your computer to the stream. Key Features: Pros: Pricing: Twitch Studio is a free streaming software by Twitch. 9. vMix. Best for a big-budget live production ($60 / one-time payment). vMix is a vision mixing software that lets you live stream videos, audio, cameras, and more. It helps you execute high-quality live HD video mixing and broadcast live videos directly to the internet. You can also switch, record, and LIVE stream videos in SD, Full HD, and 4K. The good news is you can do it using multiple sources like cameras, DVDs, images, video files, Powerpoint, and more. Here’s a list of some of the prominent features: What’s more, it assists you with the hardware to help you produce a big-budget live concert production or sporting events. You can also use vMix ‘Reference Systems’ to instantly build a vMix PC with required specifications cost-efficiently. Key Features: Pros: Pricing: vMix provides five editions: All editions come at a one-time payment. All the versions include free version updates for one year. You also get a 60-day free trial to ensure that the software is fully compatible with your system. 10. Lightstream. Best for users looking for a cloud-based solution ($99 per month). Lightstream is a web-based live streaming studio that helps you create professional and impactful live streams within minutes. It comes equipped with a drag-and-drop editor that provides unlimited creative controls, projects, and scenes. It also offers extensive third-party integration for motion graphics, on-stream alerts, and social media displays to help you drive engagement. You can even invite guests to your live stream event. You can host a range of events like panel discussions, interviews, podcasts, product launches, and more. And even your guests can share their screens with their own audience, helping you increase your outreach. It comes with a cloud-based architecture, which means that you don’t need to download the software. You can open your browser to design and produce your live stream easily. Lightstream provides three sub-products: Key Features: Pros: Pricing: Lightstream offers three versions: The free plan provides a maximum streaming length of up to 3 hours and maximum output quality of 720p 30 fps. The premium plan comes with a streaming length of up to 12 hours and a maximum output quality of 720p 60 fps. What is Live Streaming Software? Live streaming software helps your broadcast live event feeds to your audience. You can also engage with your audience, allowing them to comment, react, and chat directly on your live stream. Many of these live streaming platforms even let you share your live streams to your website, mobile app, and social media accounts. Moreover, most live streaming software consists of a hardware encoder. It enables the conversion of RAW video input to digital format for playback on multiple devices. You can also use streaming software to broadcast simultaneously on multiple platforms like social media, OTT platforms, mobile apps, and websites. On top of that, it enables you to edit, customize, and modify live streams as per your preferences. What Features Should You Look For in Live Streaming Software? Modern live streaming tools are more advanced than ever before. Most of them provide intuitive and user-friendly interfaces to meet the varied requirements of the virtual world. Some of the options offer tons of features that you might not even need. However, there are some basic requirements that you need to take into consideration. Here are a few features that you must look for in a streaming software: How Do You Use Streaming Software? Using streaming software is more or less the same process irrespective of the different software vendors. Here, I am using XSplit to demonstrate how to use streaming software. Xsplit supports live streaming on multiple platforms, including YouTube and Twitch. Here’s a brief step-by-step guide that can help you start your live stream on Twitch with XSplit. Before setting up the broadcast output, enable 2FA (Two-Factor Authentication) on Twitch. You can’t begin your broadcast without 2FA. Just go to the Twitch security settings page and click on the ‘Set Up Two-Factor Authentication’ option. After you click on the ‘Set Up Two-Factor Authentication’ button, you will have to create a password and share your mobile number. After filling all the details, you will receive a confirmation message. After setting up Two-Factor Authentication, now you need to set up the Twitch streaming output. Here are the steps to follow: Step #1. Click on the Broadcast &gt; Set up a new output option. Next, click on the ‘Twitch’ button. Step #2. Next, click on the ‘Authorize’ button and sign in with the Twitch account you want to use. After that, click on the ‘Next’ button. Step #3. After verifying the Twitch credentials, browse the setup wizard carefully to identify the connection speed, best ingest server, and resolution for your live stream. After you are through with the settings, click on the ‘Finish’ button. Finally, it’s time to start the Twitch broadcast. Here is how: Step #1. Click on the ‘Broadcast’ button and then select the output that you want to set. Step #2. Here is what the screen on Twitch Properties would look like. Other than this, it’s essential to get the settings right. Here’s how to do it: Executive Summary. That was all about the 7 best streaming software. All these software options serve the same purpose of live streaming videos. That said, each of them comes with a few unique USPs. And some of them are even available free of cost. For example, OBS Studio and Streamlabs OBS are excellent options if you are looking for an open-source solution. While both the tools are free, they come with most of the necessary features required for live streaming and extensive integration capabilities. Wirecast and vMix are most suited for larger companies that want to produce live events at scale. On the other hand, XSplit Broadcaster is a good solution for gamers who need to live stream efficiently on a small budget. Review your requirements and budget carefully before making the final choice. And do let me know which streaming software are you planning to use? Which option would work best for you, and why? Comment below! Disclosure: I may receive affiliate compensation for some of the links below at no cost to you if you decide to purchase a paid plan. You can read our affiliate disclosure in our privacy policy. This site is not intending to provide financial advice. This is for entertainment only. Adam Enfroy Disclosure: Some of the links in this article may be affiliate links, which can provide compensation to me at no cost to you if you decide to purchase a paid plan. These are products I&#8217;ve personally used and stand behind. This site is not intended to provide financial advice and is for entertainment only. You can read our affiliate disclosure in our privacy policy. #ezw_tco-3 .ez-toc-widget-container ul.ez-toc-list li.active{ background-color: #ededed; } Table of Contents Our top picks Related Articles 35 Amazing Sites with Free Stock Photos (Ultimate Guide 2023) 7 Best Kanban Software: Tools to Use in 2023 7+ Best Podcast Software to Edit and Record Your Show (2023) Quicken vs. QuickBooks: Which is Best for Small Business in 2023? Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website   &#916;document.getElementById( "ak_js_1" ).setAttribute( "value", ( new Date() ).getTime() ); This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2023 Adam Enfroy Ventures LLC, 7542 Excitement Drive, Reunion, FL 34747